---
pagetitle: What are we specially taught by these words, before me, in the first commandment?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/07/13/
prev_date: Jul 13
this_url: /westminster-daily/07/14/
this_date: Jul 14
next_url: /westminster-daily/07/15/
next_date: Jul 15
---

#### Shorter Catechism

48\. What are we specially taught by these words before me in the first commandment?

A. These words, before me, in the first commandment teach us, that God, who seeth all things, taketh notice of, and is much displeased with, the sin of having any other God.[^fnref:wsc1]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 30:17-18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05030017.01-1">But if your heart turns away, and you will not hear, but are drawn away to worship other gods and serve them, I declare to you today, that you shall surely perish. You shall not live long in the land that you are going over the Jordan to enter and possess.</p> </div><h5>Psalm 44:20-21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19044020.01-2">If we had forgotten the name of our God<br /> <span class="indent"></span>or spread out our hands to a foreign god,<br />  would not God discover this?<br /> <span class="indent"></span>For he knows the secrets of the heart.</p> </div> </div><h5>Ezekiel 8:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26008012.01-3">Then he said to me, &#8220;Son of man, have you seen what the elders of the house of Israel are doing in the dark, each in his room of pictures? For they say, &#8216;The <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> does not see us, the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> has forsaken the land.&#8217;&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

106\. What are we specially taught by these words before me in the first commandment?

A. These words before me or before my face, in the first commandment, teach us, that God, who seeth all things, taketh special notice of, and is much displeased with, the sin of having any other God: that so it may be an argument to dissuade from it, and to aggravate it as a most impudent provocation:[^fnref:wlc1] as also to persuade us to do as in his sight, whatever we do in his service.[^fnref:wlc2]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 44:20-21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19044020.01-1">If we had forgotten the name of our God<br /> <span class="indent"></span>or spread out our hands to a foreign god,<br />  would not God discover this?<br /> <span class="indent"></span>For he knows the secrets of the heart.</p> </div> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 30:17-18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05030017.01-2">But if your heart turns away, and you will not hear, but are drawn away to worship other gods and serve them, I declare to you today, that you shall surely perish. You shall not live long in the land that you are going over the Jordan to enter and possess.</p> </div><h5>Ezekiel 8:5-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26008005.01-3">Then he said to me, &#8220;Son of man, lift up your eyes now toward the north.&#8221; So I lifted up my eyes toward the north, and behold, north of the altar gate, in the entrance, was this image of jealousy. And he said to me, &#8220;Son of man, do you see what they are doing, the great abominations that the house of Israel are committing here, to drive me far from my sanctuary? But you will see still greater abominations.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Ezekiel 8:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26008012.01-4">Then he said to me, &#8220;Son of man, have you seen what the elders of the house of Israel are doing in the dark, each in his room of pictures? For they say, &#8216;The <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> does not see us, the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> has forsaken the land.&#8217;&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Chronicles 28:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p13028009.05-1">&#8220;And you, Solomon my son, know the God of your father and serve him with a whole heart and with a willing mind, for the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> searches all hearts and understands every plan and thought. If you seek him, he will be found by you, but if you forsake him, he will cast you off forever.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

