---
pagetitle: Which is the second commandment?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/07/14/
prev_date: Jul 14
this_url: /westminster-daily/07/15/
this_date: Jul 15
next_url: /westminster-daily/07/16/
next_date: Jul 16
---

#### Shorter Catechism

49. Which is the second commandment?

A. The second commandment is, Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth: thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them: for I the LORD thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me; and shewing mercy unto thousands of them that love me, and keep my commandments.[^fnref:wsc1]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Exodus 20:4-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02020004.01-1">&#8220;You shall not make for yourself a carved image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and the fourth generation of those who hate me, but showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments.</p> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 5:8-10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05005008.01-2">&#8220;&#8216;You shall not make for yourself a carved image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is on the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them or serve them; for I the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me, but showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

107. Which is the second commandment?

A. The second commandment is, Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth: thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them: for I the LORD thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me; and shewing mercy unto thousands of them that love me, and keep my commandments.[^fnref:wlc1]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Exodus 20:4-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02020004.01-1">&#8220;You shall not make for yourself a carved image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and the fourth generation of those who hate me, but showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments.</p> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 5:8-10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05005008.01-2">&#8220;&#8216;You shall not make for yourself a carved image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is on the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them or serve them; for I the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me, but showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

