---
pagetitle: What are the duties required in the second commandment?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/07/15/
prev_date: Jul 15
this_url: /westminster-daily/07/16/
this_date: Jul 16
next_url: /westminster-daily/07/17/
next_date: Jul 17
---

#### Shorter Catechism

50. What is required in the second commandment?

A. The second commandment requireth the receiving, observing, and keeping pure and entire, all such religious worship and ordinances as God hath appointed in his Word.[^fnref:wsc1]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 12:32</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05012032.01-1"> &#8220;Everything that I command you, you shall be careful to do. You shall not add to it or take from it.</p> </div><h5>Matthew 28:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40028020.01-2"><span class="woc">teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

108. What are the duties required in the second commandment?

A. The duties required in the second commandment are, the receiving, observing, and keeping pure and entire, all such religious worship and ordinances as God hath instituted in his Word;[^fnref:wlc1] particularly prayer and thanksgiving in the name of Christ;[^fnref:wlc2] the reading, preaching, and hearing of the Word;[^fnref:wlc3] the administration and receiving of the sacraments;[^fnref:wlc4] church government and discipline;[^fnref:wlc5] the ministry and maintainance thereof;[^fnref:wlc6] religious fasting;[^fnref:wlc7] swearing by the name of God,[^fnref:wlc8] and vowing unto him:[^fnref:wlc9] as also the disapproving, detesting, opposing all false worship;[^fnref:wlc10] and, according to each one's place and calling, removing it, and all monuments of idolatry.[^fnref:wlc11]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 12:32</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05012032.01-1"> &#8220;Everything that I command you, you shall be careful to do. You shall not add to it or take from it.</p> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 32:46-47</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05032046.01-2">he said to them, &#8220;Take to heart all the words by which I am warning you today, that you may command them to your children, that they may be careful to do all the words of this law. For it is no empty word for you, but your very life, and by this word you shall live long in the land that you are going over the Jordan to possess.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Matthew 28:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40028020.01-3"><span class="woc">teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 6:13-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54006013.01-4">I charge you in the presence of God, who gives life to all things, and of Christ Jesus, who in his testimony before Pontius Pilate made the good confession, to keep the commandment unstained and free from reproach until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ,</p> </div><h5>Acts 2:42</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p44002042.06-5">And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Philippians 4:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50004006.01-1">do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 5:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49005020.01-2">giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 17:18-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05017018.01-1">&#8220;And when he sits on the throne of his kingdom, he shall write for himself in a book a copy of this law, approved by the Levitical priests. And it shall be with him, and he shall read in it all the days of his life, that he may learn to fear the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> his God by keeping all the words of this law and these statutes, and doing them,</p> </div><h5>Acts 15:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44015021.01-2">For from ancient generations Moses has had in every city those who proclaim him, for he is read every Sabbath in the synagogues.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>2 Timothy 4:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p55004002.01-3">preach the word; be ready in season and out of season; reprove, rebuke, and exhort, with complete patience and teaching.</p> </div><h5>James 1:21-22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p59001021.01-4">Therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness and receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your souls.</p>  <p id="p59001022.01-4">But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves.</p> </div><h5>Acts 10:33</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44010033.01-5">So I sent for you at once, and you have been kind enough to come. Now therefore we are all here in the presence of God to hear all that you have been commanded by the Lord.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 28:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40028019.01-1"><span class="woc">Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 11:23-30</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011023.01-2">For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, <span class="woc">&#8220;This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.</p>  <p id="p46011027.01-2">Whoever, therefore, eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty concerning the body and blood of the Lord. Let a person examine himself, then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself. That is why many of you are weak and ill, and some have died.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 18:15-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40018015.07-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault, between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother.</span> <span class="woc">But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses.</span> <span class="woc">If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector.</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 16:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40016019.01-2"><span class="woc">I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 12:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46012028.01-3">And God has appointed in the church first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healing, helping, administrating, and various kinds of tongues.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 5</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p46005001.06-4"><span class="chapter-num" id="v46005001-4">5:1&nbsp;</span>It is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you, and of a kind that is not tolerated even among pagans, for a man has his father's wife. And you are arrogant! Ought you not rather to mourn? Let him who has done this be removed from among you.</p>  <p id="p46005003.01-4">For though absent in body, I am present in spirit; and as if present, I have already pronounced judgment on the one who did such a thing. When you are assembled in the name of the Lord Jesus and my spirit is present, with the power of our Lord Jesus, you are to deliver this man to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, so that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord.</p>  <p id="p46005006.01-4">Your boasting is not good. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump? Cleanse out the old leaven that you may be a new lump, as you really are unleavened. For Christ, our Passover lamb, has been sacrificed. Let us therefore celebrate the festival, not with the old leaven, the leaven of malice and evil, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.</p>  <p id="p46005009.01-4">I wrote to you in my letter not to associate with sexually immoral people&#8212; not at all meaning the sexually immoral of this world, or the greedy and swindlers, or idolaters, since then you would need to go out of the world. But now I am writing to you not to associate with anyone who bears the name of brother if he is guilty of sexual immorality or greed, or is an idolater, reviler, drunkard, or swindler&#8212;not even to eat with such a one. For what have I to do with judging outsiders? Is it not those inside the church whom you are to judge? God judges those outside. &#8220;Purge the evil person from among you.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc6]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 4:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49004011.01-1">And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds and teachers, to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ,</p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 5:17-18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54005017.01-2">Let the elders who rule well be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in preaching and teaching. For the Scripture says, &#8220;You shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain,&#8221; and, <span class="woc">&#8220;The laborer deserves his wages.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 9:7-15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46009007.01-3">Who serves as a soldier at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard without eating any of its fruit? Or who tends a flock without getting some of the milk?</p>  <p id="p46009008.01-3">Do I say these things on human authority? Does not the Law say the same? For it is written in the Law of Moses, &#8220;You shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain.&#8221; Is it for oxen that God is concerned? Does he not speak entirely for our sake? It was written for our sake, because the plowman should plow in hope and the thresher thresh in hope of sharing in the crop. If we have sown spiritual things among you, is it too much if we reap material things from you? If others share this rightful claim on you, do not we even more?</p> <p id="p46009012.14-3">Nevertheless, we have not made use of this right, but we endure anything rather than put an obstacle in the way of the gospel of Christ. Do you not know that those who are employed in the temple service get their food from the temple, and those who serve at the altar share in the sacrificial offerings? In the same way, the Lord commanded that those who proclaim the gospel should get their living by the gospel.</p>  <p id="p46009015.01-3">But I have made no use of any of these rights, nor am I writing these things to secure any such provision. For I would rather die than have anyone deprive me of my ground for boasting.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc7]: <div class="esv"><h5>Joel 2:12-13</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p29002012.05-1">&#8220;Yet even now,&#8221; declares the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>&#8220;return to me with all your heart,<br /> with fasting, with weeping, and with mourning;<br />  <span class="indent"></span>and rend your hearts and not your garments.&#8221;<br /> Return to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for he is gracious and merciful,<br /> slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and he relents over disaster.</p> </div> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 7:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46007005.01-2">Do not deprive one another, except perhaps by agreement for a limited time, that you may devote yourselves to prayer; but then come together again, so that Satan may not tempt you because of your lack of self-control.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc8]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 6:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05006013.01-1">It is the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God you shall fear. Him you shall serve and by his name you shall swear.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc9]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 76:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19076011.01-1">Make your vows to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God and perform them;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>let all around him bring gifts<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to him who is to be feared,</p> </div> </div><h5>Isaiah 19:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p23019021.01-2">And the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> will make himself known to the Egyptians, and the Egyptians will know the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> in that day and worship with sacrifice and offering, and they will make vows to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> and perform them.</p> </div><h5>Psalm 116:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19116014.01-3">I will pay my vows to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span><br /> <span class="indent"></span>in the presence of all his people.</p> </div> </div><h5>Psalm 116:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19116018.01-4">I will pay my vows to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span><br /> <span class="indent"></span>in the presence of all his people,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc10]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 17:16-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p44017016.04-1">Now while Paul was waiting for them at Athens, his spirit was provoked within him as he saw that the city was full of idols. So he reasoned in the synagogue with the Jews and the devout persons, and in the marketplace every day with those who happened to be there.</p> </div><h5>Psalm 16:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19016004.01-2">The sorrows of those who run after another god shall multiply;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>their drink offerings of blood I will not pour out<br /> <span class="indent"></span>or take their names on my lips.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc11]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 7:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05007005.01-1">But thus shall you deal with them: you shall break down their altars and dash in pieces their pillars and chop down their Asherim and burn their carved images with fire.</p> </div><h5>Isaiah 30:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p23030022.01-2">Then you will defile your carved idols overlaid with silver and your gold-plated metal images. You will scatter them as unclean things. You will say to them, &#8220;Be gone!&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

