---
pagetitle: What sins are forbidden in the second commandment?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/07/16/
prev_date: Jul 16
this_url: /westminster-daily/07/17/
short_date: "0717"
this_date: Jul 17
next_url: /westminster-daily/07/18/
next_date: Jul 18
---

#### Shorter Catechism

<span class="q">Q 51.</span> What is forbidden in the second commandment?

<span class="q">A.</span> The second commandment forbiddeth the worshiping of God by images,[^fnref:wsc1] or any other way not appointed in his Word.[^fnref:wsc2]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 4:15-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p05004015.03-1">&#8220;Therefore watch yourselves very carefully. Since you saw no form on the day that the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> spoke to you at Horeb out of the midst of the fire, beware lest you act corruptly by making a carved image for yourselves, in the form of any figure, the likeness of male or female, the likeness of any animal that is on the earth, the likeness of any winged bird that flies in the air, the likeness of anything that creeps on the ground, the likeness of any fish that is in the water under the earth. And beware lest you raise your eyes to heaven, and when you see the sun and the moon and the stars, all the host of heaven, you be drawn away and bow down to them and serve them, things that the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God has allotted to all the peoples under the whole heaven.</p> </div><h5>Romans 1:22-23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45001022.01-2">Claiming to be wise, they became fools, and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Leviticus 10:1-2</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p03010001.07-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v03010001-1">10:1&nbsp;</span>Now Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, each took his censer and put fire in it and laid incense on it and offered unauthorized fire before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, which he had not commanded them. And fire came out from before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> and consumed them, and they died before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.</p> </div><h5>Jeremiah 19:4-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p24019004.01-2">Because the people have forsaken me and have profaned this place by making offerings in it to other gods whom neither they nor their fathers nor the kings of Judah have known; and because they have filled this place with the blood of innocents, and have built the high places of Baal to burn their sons in the fire as burnt offerings to Baal, which I did not command or decree, nor did it come into my mind&#8212;</p> </div><h5>Colossians 2:18-23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51002018.01-3">Let no one disqualify you, insisting on asceticism and worship of angels, going on in detail about visions, puffed up without reason by his sensuous mind, and not holding fast to the Head, from whom the whole body, nourished and knit together through its joints and ligaments, grows with a growth that is from God.</p>  <p id="p51002020.01-3">If with Christ you died to the elemental spirits of the world, why, as if you were still alive in the world, do you submit to regulations&#8212; &#8220;Do not handle, Do not taste, Do not touch&#8221; (referring to things that all perish as they are used)&#8212;according to human precepts and teachings? These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made religion and asceticism and severity to the body, but they are of no value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">Q 109.</span> What are the sins forbidden in the second commandment?

<span class="q">A.</span> The sins forbidden in the second commandment are, all devising,[^fnref:wlc1] counseling,[^fnref:wlc2] commanding,[^fnref:wlc3] using,[^fnref:wlc4] and anywise approving, any religious worship not instituted by God himself;[^fnref:wlc5] the making any representation of God, of all or of any of the three persons, either inwardly in our mind, or outwardly in any kind of image or likeness of any creature whatsoever;[^fnref:wlc6] all worshiping of it,[^fnref:wlc7] or God in it or by it;[^fnref:wlc8] the making of any representation of feigned deities,[^fnref:wlc9] and all worship of them, or service belonging to them;[^fnref:wlc10] all superstitious devices,[^fnref:wlc11] corrupting the worship of God,[^fnref:wlc12] adding to it, or taking from it,[^fnref:wlc13] whether invented and taken up of ourselves,[^fnref:wlc14] or received by tradition from others,[^fnref:wlc15] though under the title of antiquity,[^fnref:wlc16] custom,[^fnref:wlc17] devotion,[^fnref:wlc18] good intent, or any other pretense whatsoever;[^fnref:wlc19] simony;[^fnref:wlc20] sacrilege;[^fnref:wlc21] all neglect,[^fnref:wlc22] contempt,[^fnref:wlc23] hindering,[^fnref:wlc24] and opposing the worship and ordinances which God hath appointed.[^fnref:wlc25]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Numbers 15:39</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p04015039.01-1">And it shall be a tassel for you to look at and remember all the commandments of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, to do them, not to follow after your own heart and your own eyes, which you are inclined to whore after.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 13:6-8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05013006.01-1">&#8220;If your brother, the son of your mother, or your son or your daughter or the wife you embrace or your friend who is as your own soul entices you secretly, saying, &#8216;Let us go and serve other gods,&#8217; which neither you nor your fathers have known, some of the gods of the peoples who are around you, whether near you or far off from you, from the one end of the earth to the other, you shall not yield to him or listen to him, nor shall your eye pity him, nor shall you spare him, nor shall you conceal him.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hosea 5:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p28005011.01-1">Ephraim is oppressed, crushed in judgment,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>because he was determined to go after filth.</p> </div> </div><h5>Micah 6:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p33006016.01-2">For you have kept the statutes of Omri,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and all the works of the house of Ahab;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and you have walked in their counsels,<br /> that I may make you a desolation, and your inhabitants a hissing;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>so you shall bear the scorn of my people.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Kings 11:33</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p11011033.01-1">because they have forsaken me and worshiped Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians, Chemosh the god of Moab, and Milcom the god of the Ammonites, and they have not walked in my ways, doing what is right in my sight and keeping my statutes and my rules, as David his father did.</p> </div><h5>1 Kings 12:33</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p11012033.01-2">He went up to the altar that he had made in Bethel on the fifteenth day in the eighth month, in the month that he had devised from his own heart. And he instituted a feast for the people of Israel and went up to the altar to make offerings.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 12:30-32</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05012030.01-1">take care that you be not ensnared to follow them, after they have been destroyed before you, and that you do not inquire about their gods, saying, &#8216;How did these nations serve their gods?&#8212;that I also may do the same.&#8217; You shall not worship the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God in that way, for every abominable thing that the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> hates they have done for their gods, for they even burn their sons and their daughters in the fire to their gods.</p>  <p id="p05012032.01-1"> &#8220;Everything that I command you, you shall be careful to do. You shall not add to it or take from it.</p> </div><h5>Leviticus 10:1-2</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p03010001.07-2"><span class="chapter-num" id="v03010001-2">10:1&nbsp;</span>Now Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, each took his censer and put fire in it and laid incense on it and offered unauthorized fire before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, which he had not commanded them. And fire came out from before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> and consumed them, and they died before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.</p> </div><h5>Jeremiah 19:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p24019005.01-3">and have built the high places of Baal to burn their sons in the fire as burnt offerings to Baal, which I did not command or decree, nor did it come into my mind&#8212;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc6]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 4:15-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p05004015.03-1">&#8220;Therefore watch yourselves very carefully. Since you saw no form on the day that the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> spoke to you at Horeb out of the midst of the fire, beware lest you act corruptly by making a carved image for yourselves, in the form of any figure, the likeness of male or female, the likeness of any animal that is on the earth, the likeness of any winged bird that flies in the air, the likeness of anything that creeps on the ground, the likeness of any fish that is in the water under the earth. And beware lest you raise your eyes to heaven, and when you see the sun and the moon and the stars, all the host of heaven, you be drawn away and bow down to them and serve them, things that the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God has allotted to all the peoples under the whole heaven.</p> </div><h5>Acts 17:29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p44017029.01-2">Being then God's offspring, we ought not to think that the divine being is like gold or silver or stone, an image formed by the art and imagination of man.</p> </div><h5>Romans 1:21-23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45001021.01-3">For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools, and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things.</p> </div><h5>Romans 1:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45001025.01-4">because they exchanged the truth about God for a lie and worshiped and served the creature rather than the Creator, who is blessed forever! Amen.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc7]: <div class="esv"><h5>Galatians 4:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p48004008.06-1">Formerly, when you did not know God, you were enslaved to those that by nature are not gods.</p> </div><h5>Daniel 3:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p27003018.01-2">But if not, be it known to you, O king, that we will not serve your gods or worship the golden image that you have set up.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc8]: <div class="esv"><h5>Exodus 32:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02032005.01-1">When Aaron saw this, he built an altar before it. And Aaron made proclamation and said, &#8220;Tomorrow shall be a feast to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc9]: <div class="esv"><h5>Exodus 32:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02032008.01-1">They have turned aside quickly out of the way that I commanded them. They have made for themselves a golden calf and have worshiped it and sacrificed to it and said, &#8216;These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt!&#8217;&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc10]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Kings 18:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p11018026.01-1">And they took the bull that was given them, and they prepared it and called upon the name of Baal from morning until noon, saying, &#8220;O Baal, answer us!&#8221; But there was no voice, and no one answered. And they limped around the altar that they had made.</p> </div><h5>1 Kings 18:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p11018028.01-2">And they cried aloud and cut themselves after their custom with swords and lances, until the blood gushed out upon them.</p> </div><h5>Isaiah 65:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23065011.01-3">But you who forsake the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>who forget my holy mountain,<br /> who set a table for Fortune<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and fill cups of mixed wine for Destiny,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc11]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 17:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p44017022.05-1">So Paul, standing in the midst of the Areopagus, said: &#8220;Men of Athens, I perceive that in every way you are very religious.</p> </div><h5>Colossians 2:21-23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51002021.01-2">&#8220;Do not handle, Do not taste, Do not touch&#8221; (referring to things that all perish as they are used)&#8212;according to human precepts and teachings? These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made religion and asceticism and severity to the body, but they are of no value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc12]: <div class="esv"><h5>Malachi 1:7-8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p39001007.01-1">By offering polluted food upon my altar. But you say, &#8216;How have we polluted you?&#8217; By saying that the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>'s table may be despised. When you offer blind animals in sacrifice, is that not evil? And when you offer those that are lame or sick, is that not evil? Present that to your governor; will he accept you or show you favor? says the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> of hosts.</p> </div><h5>Malachi 1:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p39001014.01-2">Cursed be the cheat who has a male in his flock, and vows it, and yet sacrifices to the Lord what is blemished. For I am a great King, says the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> of hosts, and my name will be feared among the nations.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc13]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 4:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05004002.01-1">You shall not add to the word that I command you, nor take from it, that you may keep the commandments of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God that I command you.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc14]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 106:39</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19106039.01-1">Thus they became unclean by their acts,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and played the whore in their deeds.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc15]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 15:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p40015009.01-1"><span class="woc">in vain do they worship me,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>teaching as doctrines the commandments of men.&#8217;&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc16]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Peter 1:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60001018.01-1">knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc17]: <div class="esv"><h5>Jeremiah 44:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p24044017.01-1">But we will do everything that we have vowed, make offerings to the queen of heaven and pour out drink offerings to her, as we did, both we and our fathers, our kings and our officials, in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem. For then we had plenty of food, and prospered, and saw no disaster.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc18]: <div class="esv"><h5>Isaiah 65:3-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23065003.01-1">a people who provoke me<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to my face continually,<br /> sacrificing in gardens<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and making offerings on bricks;<br />  who sit in tombs,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and spend the night in secret places;<br /> who eat pig's flesh,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and broth of tainted meat is in their vessels;<br />  who say, &#8220;Keep to yourself,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>do not come near me, for I am too holy for you.&#8221;<br /> These are a smoke in my nostrils,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>a fire that burns all the day.</p> </div> </div><h5>Galatians 1:13-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48001013.01-2">For you have heard of my former life in Judaism, how I persecuted the church of God violently and tried to destroy it. And I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my own age among my people, so extremely zealous was I for the traditions of my fathers.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc19]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Samuel 13:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p09013011.01-1">Samuel said, &#8220;What have you done?&#8221; And Saul said, &#8220;When I saw that the people were scattering from me, and that you did not come within the days appointed, and that the Philistines had mustered at Michmash, I said, &#8216;Now the Philistines will come down against me at Gilgal, and I have not sought the favor of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.&#8217; So I forced myself, and offered the burnt offering.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>1 Samuel 15:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p09015021.01-2">But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the best of the things devoted to destruction, to sacrifice to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God in Gilgal.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc20]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 8:18-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44008018.01-1">Now when Simon saw that the Spirit was given through the laying on of the apostles' hands, he offered them money, saying, &#8220;Give me this power also, so that anyone on whom I lay my hands may receive the Holy Spirit.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc21]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 2:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45002022.01-1">You who say that one must not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples?</p> </div><h5>Malachi 3:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p39003008.01-2">Will man rob God? Yet you are robbing me. But you say, &#8216;How have we robbed you?&#8217; In your tithes and contributions.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc22]: <div class="esv"><h5>Exodus 4:24-26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02004024.01-1">At a lodging place on the way the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> met him and sought to put him to death. Then Zipporah took a flint and cut off her son's foreskin and touched Moses' feet with it and said, &#8220;Surely you are a bridegroom of blood to me!&#8221; So he let him alone. It was then that she said, &#8220;A bridegroom of blood,&#8221; because of the circumcision.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc23]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 22:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40022005.01-1"><span class="woc">But they paid no attention and went off, one to his farm, another to his business,</span></p> </div><h5>Malachi 1:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p39001007.01-2">By offering polluted food upon my altar. But you say, &#8216;How have we polluted you?&#8217; By saying that the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>'s table may be despised.</p> </div><h5>Malachi 1:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p39001013.01-3">But you say, &#8216;What a weariness this is,&#8217; and you snort at it, says the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> of hosts. You bring what has been taken by violence or is lame or sick, and this you bring as your offering! Shall I accept that from your hand? says the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc24]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 23:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40023013.01-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you shut the kingdom of heaven in people's faces. For you neither enter yourselves nor allow those who would enter to go in.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc25]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 13:44-45</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44013044.01-1">The next Sabbath almost the whole city gathered to hear the word of the Lord. But when the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy and began to contradict what was spoken by Paul, reviling him.</p> </div><h5>1 Thessalonians 2:15-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p52002015.01-2">who killed both the Lord Jesus and the prophets, and drove us out, and displease God and oppose all mankind by hindering us from speaking to the Gentiles that they might be saved&#8212;so as always to fill up the measure of their sins. But God's wrath has come upon them at last!  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

