---
pagetitle: What reasons are annexed to the third commandment?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/07/21/
prev_date: Jul 21
this_url: /westminster-daily/07/22/
this_date: Jul 22
next_url: /westminster-daily/07/23/
next_date: Jul 23
---

#### Shorter Catechism

56\. What is the reason annexed to the third commandment?

A. The reason annexed to the third commandment is, that however the breakers of this commandment may escape punishment from men, yet the Lord our God will not suffer them to escape his righteous judgment.[^fnref:wsc1]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 28:58-59</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05028058.01-1">&#8220;If you are not careful to do all the words of this law that are written in this book, that you may fear this glorious and awesome name, the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God, then the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> will bring on you and your offspring extraordinary afflictions, afflictions severe and lasting, and sicknesses grievous and lasting.</p> </div><h5>1 Samuel 3:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p09003013.01-2">And I declare to him that I am about to punish his house forever, for the iniquity that he knew, because his sons were blaspheming God, and he did not restrain them.</p> </div><h5>1 Samuel 4:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p09004011.01-3">And the ark of God was captured, and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, died.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

114\. What reasons are annexed to the third commandment?

A. The reasons annexed to the third commandment, in these words, The LORD thy God, and, For the LORD will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain,[^fnref:wlc1] are, because he is the Lord and our God, therefore his name is not to be profaned, or anyway abused by us;[^fnref:wlc2] especially because he will be so far from acquitting and sparing the transgressors of this commandment, as that he will not suffer them to escape his righteous judgment,[^fnref:wlc3] albeit many such escape the censures and punishments of men.[^fnref:wlc4]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Exodus 20:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02020007.01-1">&#8220;You shall not take the name of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God in vain, for the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Leviticus 19:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p03019012.01-1">You shall not swear by my name falsely, and so profane the name of your God: I am the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 28:58-59</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05028058.01-1">&#8220;If you are not careful to do all the words of this law that are written in this book, that you may fear this glorious and awesome name, the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God, then the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> will bring on you and your offspring extraordinary afflictions, afflictions severe and lasting, and sicknesses grievous and lasting.</p> </div><h5>Ezekiel 36:21-23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26036021.01-2">But I had concern for my holy name, which the house of Israel had profaned among the nations to which they came.</p>   <p id="p26036022.08-2">&#8220;Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord <span class="small-caps">God</span>: It is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I am about to act, but for the sake of my holy name, which you have profaned among the nations to which you came. And I will vindicate the holiness of my great name, which has been profaned among the nations, and which you have profaned among them. And the nations will know that I am the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, declares the Lord <span class="small-caps">God</span>, when through you I vindicate my holiness before their eyes.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Samuel 2:29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p09002029.01-1">Why then do you scorn my sacrifices and my offerings that I commanded, and honor your sons above me by fattening yourselves on the choicest parts of every offering of my people Israel?&#8217;</p> </div><h5>1 Samuel 3:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p09003013.01-2">And I declare to him that I am about to punish his house forever, for the iniquity that he knew, because his sons were blaspheming God, and he did not restrain them.</p> </div><h5>1 Samuel 2:12-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p09002012.04-3">Now the sons of Eli were worthless men. They did not know the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. The custom of the priests with the people was that when any man offered sacrifice, the priest's servant would come, while the meat was boiling, with a three-pronged fork in his hand, and he would thrust it into the pan or kettle or cauldron or pot. All that the fork brought up the priest would take for himself. This is what they did at Shiloh to all the Israelites who came there. Moreover, before the fat was burned, the priest's servant would come and say to the man who was sacrificing, &#8220;Give meat for the priest to roast, for he will not accept boiled meat from you but only raw.&#8221; And if the man said to him, &#8220;Let them burn the fat first, and then take as much as you wish,&#8221; he would say, &#8220;No, you must give it now, and if not, I will take it by force.&#8221; Thus the sin of the young men was very great in the sight of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, for the men treated the offering of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> with contempt.</p> </div><h5>1 Samuel 2:22-25</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p09002022.05-4">Now Eli was very old, and he kept hearing all that his sons were doing to all Israel, and how they lay with the women who were serving at the entrance to the tent of meeting. And he said to them, &#8220;Why do you do such things? For I hear of your evil dealings from all the people. No, my sons; it is no good report that I hear the people of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> spreading abroad. If someone sins against a man, God will mediate for him, but if someone sins against the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, who can intercede for him?&#8221; But they would not listen to the voice of their father, for it was the will of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> to put them to death.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

