---
pagetitle: Which is the fourth commandment?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/07/22/
prev_date: Jul 22
this_url: /westminster-daily/07/23/
this_date: Jul 23
next_url: /westminster-daily/07/24/
next_date: Jul 24
---

#### Shorter Catechism

57\. Which is the fourth commandment?

A. The fourth commandment is, Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work: but the seventh day is the sabbath of the LORD thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates: for in six days the LORD made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore the LORD blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it.[^fnref:wsc1]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Exodus 20:8-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02020008.01-1">&#8220;Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor, and do all your work, but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God. On it you shall not do any work, you, or your son, or your daughter, your male servant, or your female servant, or your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates. For in six days the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Therefore the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy.</p> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 5:12-15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05005012.01-2">&#8220;&#8216;Observe the Sabbath day, to keep it holy, as the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God commanded you. Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God. On it you shall not do any work, you or your son or your daughter or your male servant or your female servant, or your ox or your donkey or any of your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates, that your male servant and your female servant may rest as well as you. You shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God brought you out from there with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm. Therefore the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God commanded you to keep the Sabbath day.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

115\. Which is the fourth commandment?

A. The fourth commandment is, Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work: but the seventh day is the sabbath of the LORD thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates: for in six days the LORD made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore the LORD blessed the sabbath day and hallowed it.[^fnref:wlc1]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Exodus 20:8-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02020008.01-1">&#8220;Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor, and do all your work, but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God. On it you shall not do any work, you, or your son, or your daughter, your male servant, or your female servant, or your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates. For in six days the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Therefore the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy.</p> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 5:12-15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05005012.01-2">&#8220;&#8216;Observe the Sabbath day, to keep it holy, as the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God commanded you. Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God. On it you shall not do any work, you or your son or your daughter or your male servant or your female servant, or your ox or your donkey or any of your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates, that your male servant and your female servant may rest as well as you. You shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God brought you out from there with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm. Therefore the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God commanded you to keep the Sabbath day.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

