---
pagetitle: Why is the charge of keeping the Sabbath more specially directed to governors of families?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/07/26/
prev_date: Jul 26
this_url: /westminster-daily/07/27/
short_date: "0727"
this_date: Jul 27
next_url: /westminster-daily/07/28/
next_date: Jul 28
---

#### Larger Catechism

118\. Why is the charge of keeping the Sabbath more specially directed to governors of families, and other superiors?

A. The charge of keeping the Sabbath is more specially directed to governors of families, and other superiors, because they are bound not only to keep it themselves, but to see that it be observed by all those that are under their charge; and because they are prone ofttimes to hinder them by employments of their own.[^fnref:wlc1]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Exodus 20:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02020010.01-1">but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God. On it you shall not do any work, you, or your son, or your daughter, your male servant, or your female servant, or your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates.</p> </div><h5>Exodus 23:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02023012.01-2">&#8220;Six days you shall do your work, but on the seventh day you shall rest; that your ox and your donkey may have rest, and the son of your servant woman, and the alien, may be refreshed.</p> </div><h5>Joshua 24:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p06024015.01-3">And if it is evil in your eyes to serve the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, choose this day whom you will serve, whether the gods your fathers served in the region beyond the River, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Nehemiah 13:15-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p16013015.01-4">In those days I saw in Judah people treading winepresses on the Sabbath, and bringing in heaps of grain and loading them on donkeys, and also wine, grapes, figs, and all kinds of loads, which they brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day. And I warned them on the day when they sold food. Tyrians also, who lived in the city, brought in fish and all kinds of goods and sold them on the Sabbath to the people of Judah, in Jerusalem itself! Then I confronted the nobles of Judah and said to them, &#8220;What is this evil thing that you are doing, profaning the Sabbath day?</p> </div><h5>Jeremiah 17:20-22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p24017020.01-5">and say: &#8216;Hear the word of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, you kings of Judah, and all Judah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, who enter by these gates. Thus says the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>: Take care for the sake of your lives, and do not bear a burden on the Sabbath day or bring it in by the gates of Jerusalem. And do not carry a burden out of your houses on the Sabbath or do any work, but keep the Sabbath day holy, as I commanded your fathers.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

