---
pagetitle: What are the reasons annexed to the fourth commandment, the more to enforce it?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/07/28/
prev_date: Jul 28
this_url: /westminster-daily/07/29/
short_date: "0729"
this_date: Jul 29
next_url: /westminster-daily/07/30/
next_date: Jul 30
---

#### Shorter Catechism

<span class="q">Q 62.</span> What are the reasons annexed to the fourth commandment?

<span class="q">A.</span> The reasons annexed to the fourth commandment are, God's allowing us six days of the week for our own employments,[^fnref:wsc1] his challenging a special propriety in the seventh, his own example, and his blessing the Sabbath day.[^fnref:wsc2]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Exodus 20:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02020009.01-1">Six days you shall labor, and do all your work,</p> </div><h5>Exodus 31:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02031015.01-2">Six days shall work be done, but the seventh day is a Sabbath of solemn rest, holy to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. Whoever does any work on the Sabbath day shall be put to death.</p> </div><h5>Leviticus 23:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p03023003.03-3">&#8220;Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day is a Sabbath of solemn rest, a holy convocation. You shall do no work. It is a Sabbath to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> in all your dwelling places.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 2:2-3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01002002.01-1">And on the seventh day God finished his work that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done. So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation.</p> </div><h5>Exodus 20:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02020011.01-2">For in six days the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Therefore the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy.</p> </div><h5>Exodus 31:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02031017.01-3">It is a sign forever between me and the people of Israel that in six days the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day he rested and was refreshed.&#8217;&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">Q 120.</span> What are the reasons annexed to the fourth commandment, the more to enforce it?

<span class="q">A.</span> The reasons annexed to the fourth commandment, the more to enforce it, are taken from the equity of it, God allowing us six days of seven for our own affairs, and reserving but one for himself, in these words, Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work:[^fnref:wlc1] from God's challenging a special propriety in that day, The seventh day is the sabbath of the LORD thy God:[^fnref:wlc2] from the example of God, who in six days ... made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day: and from that blessing which God put upon that day, not only in sanctifying it to be a day for his service, but in ordaining it to be a means of blessing to us in our sanctifying it; Wherefore the LORD blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it.[^fnref:wlc3]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Exodus 20:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02020009.01-1">Six days you shall labor, and do all your work,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Exodus 20:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02020010.01-1">but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God. On it you shall not do any work, you, or your son, or your daughter, your male servant, or your female servant, or your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Exodus 20:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02020011.01-1">For in six days the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Therefore the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

