---
pagetitle: What is the general scope of the fifth commandment?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/08/03/
prev_date: Aug 3
this_url: /westminster-daily/08/04/
this_date: Aug 4
next_url: /westminster-daily/08/05/
next_date: Aug 5
---

#### Shorter Catechism

64. What is required in the fifth commandment?

A. The fifth commandment requireth the preserving the honor, and performing the duties, belonging to everyone in their several places and relations, as superiors, inferiors, or equals.[^fnref:wsc1]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 13:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45013001.05-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v45013001-1">13:1&nbsp;</span>Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God.</p> </div><h5>Romans 13:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45013007.01-2">Pay to all what is owed to them: taxes to whom taxes are owed, revenue to whom revenue is owed, respect to whom respect is owed, honor to whom honor is owed.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 5:21-22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49005021.01-3">submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ.</p>   <p id="p49005022.04-3">Wives, submit to your own husbands, as to the Lord.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 5:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49005024.01-4">Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 6:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p49006001.04-5"><span class="chapter-num" id="v49006001-5">6:1&nbsp;</span>Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 6:4-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49006004.01-6">Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord.</p>   <p id="p49006005.04-6">Slaves, obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling, with a sincere heart, as you would Christ,</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 6:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49006009.01-7">Masters, do the same to them, and stop your threatening, knowing that he who is both their Master and yours is in heaven, and that there is no partiality with him.</p> </div><h5>1 Peter 2:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60002017.01-8">Honor everyone. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the emperor.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

126. What is the general scope of the fifth commandment?

A. The general scope of the fifth commandment is, the performance of those duties which we mutually owe in our several relations, as inferiors, superiors, or equals.[^fnref:wlc1]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 5:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49005021.01-1">submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ.</p> </div><h5>1 Peter 2:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60002017.01-2">Honor everyone. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the emperor.</p> </div><h5>Romans 12:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45012010.01-3">Love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor.</p> </div><h5>Romans 13:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45013001.05-4"><span class="chapter-num" id="v45013001-4">13:1&nbsp;</span>Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God.</p> </div><h5>Romans 13:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45013007.01-5">Pay to all what is owed to them: taxes to whom taxes are owed, revenue to whom revenue is owed, respect to whom respect is owed, honor to whom honor is owed.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 5:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p49005022.04-6">Wives, submit to your own husbands, as to the Lord.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 5:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49005024.01-7">Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 6:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p49006001.04-8"><span class="chapter-num" id="v49006001-8">6:1&nbsp;</span>Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 6:4-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49006004.01-9">Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord.</p>   <p id="p49006005.04-9">Slaves, obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling, with a sincere heart, as you would Christ,</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 6:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49006009.01-10">Masters, do the same to them, and stop your threatening, knowing that he who is both their Master and yours is in heaven, and that there is no partiality with him.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

