---
pagetitle: What are the sins of inferiors against their superiors?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/08/05/
prev_date: Aug 5
this_url: /westminster-daily/08/06/
this_date: Aug 6
next_url: /westminster-daily/08/07/
next_date: Aug 7
---

#### Shorter Catechism

65\. What is forbidden in the fifth commandment?

A. The fifth commandment forbiddeth the neglecting of, or doing anything against, the honor and duty which belongeth to everyone in their several places and relations.[^fnref:wsc1]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 15:4-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40015004.01-1"><span class="woc">For God commanded, &#8216;Honor your father and your mother,&#8217; and, &#8216;Whoever reviles father or mother must surely die.&#8217;</span> <span class="woc">But you say, &#8216;If anyone tells his father or his mother, &#8220;What you would have gained from me is given to God,&#8221;</span> <span class="woc">he need not honor his father.&#8217;</span> <span class="woc">So for the sake of your tradition you have made void the word of God.</span></p> </div><h5>Romans 13:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45013008.06-2">Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one who loves another has fulfilled the law.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

128\. What are the sins of inferiors against their superiors?

A. The sins of inferiors against their superiors are, all neglect of the duties required toward them;[^fnref:wlc1] envying at,[^fnref:wlc2] contempt of,[^fnref:wlc3] and rebellion[^fnref:wlc4] against, their persons[^fnref:wlc5] and places,[^fnref:wlc6] in their lawful counsels,[^fnref:wlc7] commands, and corrections;[^fnref:wlc8] cursing, mocking,[^fnref:wlc9] and all such refractory and scandalous carriage, as proves a shame and dishonor to them and their government.[^fnref:wlc10]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 15:4-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40015004.01-1"><span class="woc">For God commanded, &#8216;Honor your father and your mother,&#8217; and, &#8216;Whoever reviles father or mother must surely die.&#8217;</span> <span class="woc">But you say, &#8216;If anyone tells his father or his mother, &#8220;What you would have gained from me is given to God,&#8221;</span> <span class="woc">he need not honor his father.&#8217;</span> <span class="woc">So for the sake of your tradition you have made void the word of God.</span></p> </div><h5>Romans 13:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45013008.06-2">Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one who loves another has fulfilled the law.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Numbers 11:28-29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p04011028.01-1">And Joshua the son of Nun, the assistant of Moses from his youth, said, &#8220;My lord Moses, stop them.&#8221; But Moses said to him, &#8220;Are you jealous for my sake? Would that all the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>'s people were prophets, that the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> would put his Spirit on them!&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Samuel 8:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p09008007.01-1">And the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> said to Samuel, &#8220;Obey the voice of the people in all that they say to you, for they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me from being king over them.</p> </div><h5>Isaiah 3:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23003005.01-2">And the people will oppress one another,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>every one his fellow<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and every one his neighbor;<br /> the youth will be insolent to the elder,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and the despised to the honorable.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Samuel 15:1-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p10015001.03-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v10015001-1">15:1&nbsp;</span>After this Absalom got himself a chariot and horses, and fifty men to run before him. And Absalom used to rise early and stand beside the way of the gate. And when any man had a dispute to come before the king for judgment, Absalom would call to him and say, &#8220;From what city are you?&#8221; And when he said, &#8220;Your servant is of such and such a tribe in Israel,&#8221; Absalom would say to him, &#8220;See, your claims are good and right, but there is no man designated by the king to hear you.&#8221; Then Absalom would say, &#8220;Oh that I were judge in the land! Then every man with a dispute or cause might come to me, and I would give him justice.&#8221; And whenever a man came near to pay homage to him, he would put out his hand and take hold of him and kiss him. Thus Absalom did to all of Israel who came to the king for judgment. So Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel.</p>  <p id="p10015007.01-1">And at the end of four years Absalom said to the king, &#8220;Please let me go and pay my vow, which I have vowed to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, in Hebron. For your servant vowed a vow while I lived at Geshur in Aram, saying, &#8216;If the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> will indeed bring me back to Jerusalem, then I will offer worship to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.&#8217;&#8221; The king said to him, &#8220;Go in peace.&#8221; So he arose and went to Hebron. But Absalom sent secret messengers throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, &#8220;As soon as you hear the sound of the trumpet, then say, &#8216;Absalom is king at Hebron!&#8217;&#8221; With Absalom went two hundred men from Jerusalem who were invited guests, and they went in their innocence and knew nothing. And while Absalom was offering the sacrifices, he sent for Ahithophel the Gilonite, David's counselor, from his city Giloh. And the conspiracy grew strong, and the people with Absalom kept increasing.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Exodus 21:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02021015.01-1">&#8220;Whoever strikes his father or his mother shall be put to death.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc6]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Samuel 10:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p09010027.01-1">But some worthless fellows said, &#8220;How can this man save us?&#8221; And they despised him and brought him no present. But he held his peace.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc7]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Samuel 2:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p09002025.01-1">If someone sins against a man, God will mediate for him, but if someone sins against the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, who can intercede for him?&#8221; But they would not listen to the voice of their father, for it was the will of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> to put them to death.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc8]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 21:18-21</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p05021018.04-1">&#8220;If a man has a stubborn and rebellious son who will not obey the voice of his father or the voice of his mother, and, though they discipline him, will not listen to them, then his father and his mother shall take hold of him and bring him out to the elders of his city at the gate of the place where he lives, and they shall say to the elders of his city, &#8216;This our son is stubborn and rebellious; he will not obey our voice; he is a glutton and a drunkard.&#8217; Then all the men of the city shall stone him to death with stones. So you shall purge the evil from your midst, and all Israel shall hear, and fear.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc9]: <div class="esv"><h5>Proverbs 30:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20030011.01-1">There are those who curse their fathers<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and do not bless their mothers.</p> </div> </div><h5>Proverbs 30:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20030017.01-2">The eye that mocks a father<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and scorns to obey a mother<br /> will be picked out by the ravens of the valley<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and eaten by the vultures.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc10]: <div class="esv"><h5>Proverbs 19:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20019026.01-1">He who does violence to his father and chases away his mother<br /> <span class="indent"></span>is a son who brings shame and reproach.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

