---
pagetitle: What are the duties required in the ninth commandment?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/08/21/
prev_date: Aug 21
this_url: /westminster-daily/08/22/
short_date: "0822"
this_date: Aug 22
next_url: /westminster-daily/08/23/
next_date: Aug 23
---

#### Shorter Catechism

<span class="q">Q 77.</span> What is required in the ninth commandment?

<span class="q">A.</span> The ninth commandment requireth the maintaining and promoting of truth between man and man, and of our own and our neighbor's good name,[^fnref:wsc1] especially in witness bearing.[^fnref:wsc2]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Zechariah 8:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p38008016.01-1">These are the things that you shall do: Speak the truth to one another; render in your gates judgments that are true and make for peace;</p> </div><h5>Acts 25:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44025010.01-2">But Paul said, &#8220;I am standing before Caesar's tribunal, where I ought to be tried. To the Jews I have done no wrong, as you yourself know very well.</p> </div><h5>3 John 1:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p64001012.01-3">Demetrius has received a good testimony from everyone, and from the truth itself. We also add our testimony, and you know that our testimony is true.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Proverbs 14:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20014005.01-1">A faithful witness does not lie,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>but a false witness breathes out lies.</p> </div> </div><h5>Proverbs 14:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20014025.01-2">A truthful witness saves lives,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>but one who breathes out lies is deceitful.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">Q 144.</span> What are the duties required in the ninth commandment?

<span class="q">A.</span> The duties required in the ninth commandment are, the preserving and promoting of truth between man and man,[^fnref:wlc1] and the good name of our neighbor, as well as our own;[^fnref:wlc2] appearing and standing for the truth;[^fnref:wlc3] and from the heart,[^fnref:wlc4] sincerely,[^fnref:wlc5] freely,[^fnref:wlc6] clearly,[^fnref:wlc7] and fully,[^fnref:wlc8] speaking the truth, and only the truth, in matters of judgment and justice,[^fnref:wlc9] and in all other things whatsoever;[^fnref:wlc10] a charitable esteem of our neighbors;[^fnref:wlc11] loving, desiring, and rejoicing in their good name;[^fnref:wlc12] sorrowing for,[^fnref:wlc13] and covering of their infirmities;[^fnref:wlc14] freely acknowledging of their gifts and graces,[^fnref:wlc15] defending their innocency;[^fnref:wlc16] a ready receiving of a good report,[^fnref:wlc17] and unwillingness to admit of an evil report,[^fnref:wlc18] concerning them; discouraging talebearers,[^fnref:wlc19] flatterers,[^fnref:wlc20] and slanderers;[^fnref:wlc21] love and care of our own good name, and defending it when need requireth;[^fnref:wlc22] keeping of lawful promises;[^fnref:wlc23] studying and practicing of whatsoever things are true, honest, lovely, and of good report.[^fnref:wlc24]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Zechariah 8:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p38008016.01-1">These are the things that you shall do: Speak the truth to one another; render in your gates judgments that are true and make for peace;</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 4:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49004025.01-2">Therefore, having put away falsehood, let each one of you speak the truth with his neighbor, for we are members one of another.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>3 John 1:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p64001012.01-1">Demetrius has received a good testimony from everyone, and from the truth itself. We also add our testimony, and you know that our testimony is true.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Proverbs 31:8-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20031008.01-1">Open your mouth for the mute,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for the rights of all who are destitute.<br />  Open your mouth, judge righteously,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>defend the rights of the poor and needy.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 15:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19015002.01-1">He who walks blamelessly and does what is right<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and speaks truth in his heart;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Chronicles 19:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p14019009.01-1">And he charged them: &#8220;Thus you shall do in the fear of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, in faithfulness, and with your whole heart:  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc6]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Samuel 19:4-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p09019004.01-1">And Jonathan spoke well of David to Saul his father and said to him, &#8220;Let not the king sin against his servant David, because he has not sinned against you, and because his deeds have brought good to you. For he took his life in his hand and he struck down the Philistine, and the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> worked a great salvation for all Israel. You saw it, and rejoiced. Why then will you sin against innocent blood by killing David without cause?&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc7]: <div class="esv"><h5>Joshua 7:15-20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p06007015.01-1">And he who is taken with the devoted things shall be burned with fire, he and all that he has, because he has transgressed the covenant of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, and because he has done an outrageous thing in Israel.&#8217;&#8221;</p>  <p id="p06007016.01-1">So Joshua rose early in the morning and brought Israel near tribe by tribe, and the tribe of Judah was taken. And he brought near the clans of Judah, and the clan of the Zerahites was taken. And he brought near the clan of the Zerahites man by man, and Zabdi was taken. And he brought near his household man by man, and Achan the son of Carmi, son of Zabdi, son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, was taken. Then Joshua said to Achan, &#8220;My son, give glory to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> God of Israel and give praise to him. And tell me now what you have done; do not hide it from me.&#8221; And Achan answered Joshua, &#8220;Truly I have sinned against the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> God of Israel, and this is what I did:  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc8]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Samuel 14:18-20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p10014018.01-1">Then the king answered the woman, &#8220;Do not hide from me anything I ask you.&#8221; And the woman said, &#8220;Let my lord the king speak.&#8221; The king said, &#8220;Is the hand of Joab with you in all this?&#8221; The woman answered and said, &#8220;As surely as you live, my lord the king, one cannot turn to the right hand or to the left from anything that my lord the king has said. It was your servant Joab who commanded me; it was he who put all these words in the mouth of your servant. In order to change the course of things your servant Joab did this. But my lord has wisdom like the wisdom of the angel of God to know all things that are on the earth.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Acts 20:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44020027.01-2">for I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole counsel of God.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc9]: <div class="esv"><h5>Leviticus 19:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p03019015.01-1">&#8220;You shall do no injustice in court. You shall not be partial to the poor or defer to the great, but in righteousness shall you judge your neighbor.</p> </div><h5>Proverbs 14:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20014005.01-2">A faithful witness does not lie,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>but a false witness breathes out lies.</p> </div> </div><h5>Proverbs 14:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20014025.01-3">A truthful witness saves lives,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>but one who breathes out lies is deceitful.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc10]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Corinthians 1:17-18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47001017.01-1">Was I vacillating when I wanted to do this? Do I make my plans according to the flesh, ready to say &#8220;Yes, yes&#8221; and &#8220;No, no&#8221; at the same time? As surely as God is faithful, our word to you has not been Yes and No.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 4:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49004025.01-2">Therefore, having put away falsehood, let each one of you speak the truth with his neighbor, for we are members one of another.</p> </div><h5>Colossians 3:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51003009.01-3">Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc11]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 6:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58006009.01-1">Though we speak in this way, yet in your case, beloved, we feel sure of better things&#8212;things that belong to salvation.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 13:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46013007.01-2">Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc12]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 1:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45001008.06-1">First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you, because your faith is proclaimed in all the world.</p> </div><h5>2 John 1:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p63001004.06-2">I rejoiced greatly to find some of your children walking in the truth, just as we were commanded by the Father.</p> </div><h5>3 John 1:3-4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p64001003.01-3">For I rejoiced greatly when the brothers came and testified to your truth, as indeed you are walking in the truth. I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc13]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Corinthians 2:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47002004.01-1">For I wrote to you out of much affliction and anguish of heart and with many tears, not to cause you pain but to let you know the abundant love that I have for you.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 12:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47012021.01-2">I fear that when I come again my God may humble me before you, and I may have to mourn over many of those who sinned earlier and have not repented of the impurity, sexual immorality, and sensuality that they have practiced.</p> </div><h5>Psalm 119:158</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19119158.01-3">I look at the faithless with disgust,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>because they do not keep your commands.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc14]: <div class="esv"><h5>Proverbs 17:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20017009.01-1">Whoever covers an offense seeks love,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>but he who repeats a matter separates close friends.</p> </div> </div><h5>1 Peter 4:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60004008.01-2">Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc15]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 1:4-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p46001004.02-1">I give thanks to my God always for you because of the grace of God that was given you in Christ Jesus, that in every way you were enriched in him in all speech and all knowledge&#8212;</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 1:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46001007.01-2">so that you are not lacking in any spiritual gift, as you wait for the revealing of our Lord Jesus Christ,</p> </div><h5>2 Timothy 1:4-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p55001004.01-3">As I remember your tears, I long to see you, that I may be filled with joy. I am reminded of your sincere faith, a faith that dwelt first in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice and now, I am sure, dwells in you as well.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc16]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Samuel 22:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p09022014.01-1">Then Ahimelech answered the king, &#8220;And who among all your servants is so faithful as David, who is the king's son-in-law, and captain over your bodyguard, and honored in your house?  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc17]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 13:6-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46013006.01-1">it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc18]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 15:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19015003.01-1">who does not slander with his tongue<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and does no evil to his neighbor,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>nor takes up a reproach against his friend;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc19]: <div class="esv"><h5>Proverbs 25:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20025023.01-1">The north wind brings forth rain,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and a backbiting tongue, angry looks.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc20]: <div class="esv"><h5>Proverbs 26:24-25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20026024.01-1">Whoever hates disguises himself with his lips<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and harbors deceit in his heart;<br />  when he speaks graciously, believe him not,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for there are seven abominations in his heart;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc21]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 101:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19101005.01-1">Whoever slanders his neighbor secretly<br /> <span class="indent"></span>I will destroy.<br /> Whoever has a haughty look and an arrogant heart<br /> <span class="indent"></span>I will not endure.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc22]: <div class="esv"><h5>Proverbs 22:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20022001.01-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v20022001-1">22:1&nbsp;</span>A good name is to be chosen rather than great riches,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and favor is better than silver or gold.</p> </div> </div><h5>John 8:49</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43008049.01-2">Jesus answered, <span class="woc">&#8220;I do not have a demon, but I honor my Father, and you dishonor me.</span></p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 11:1-12:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p47011001.06-3"><span class="chapter-num" id="v47011001-3">11:1&nbsp;</span>I wish you would bear with me in a little foolishness. Do bear with me! For I feel a divine jealousy for you, since I betrothed you to one husband, to present you as a pure virgin to Christ. But I am afraid that as the serpent deceived Eve by his cunning, your thoughts will be led astray from a sincere and pure devotion to Christ. For if someone comes and proclaims another Jesus than the one we proclaimed, or if you receive a different spirit from the one you received, or if you accept a different gospel from the one you accepted, you put up with it readily enough. Indeed, I consider that I am not in the least inferior to these super-apostles. Even if I am unskilled in speaking, I am not so in knowledge; indeed, in every way we have made this plain to you in all things.</p>  <p id="p47011007.01-3">Or did I commit a sin in humbling myself so that you might be exalted, because I preached God's gospel to you free of charge? I robbed other churches by accepting support from them in order to serve you. And when I was with you and was in need, I did not burden anyone, for the brothers who came from Macedonia supplied my need. So I refrained and will refrain from burdening you in any way. As the truth of Christ is in me, this boasting of mine will not be silenced in the regions of Achaia. And why? Because I do not love you? God knows I do!</p>  <p id="p47011012.01-3">And what I do I will continue to do, in order to undermine the claim of those who would like to claim that in their boasted mission they work on the same terms as we do. For such men are false apostles, deceitful workmen, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ. And no wonder, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light. So it is no surprise if his servants, also, disguise themselves as servants of righteousness. Their end will correspond to their deeds.</p>   <p id="p47011016.06-3">I repeat, let no one think me foolish. But even if you do, accept me as a fool, so that I too may boast a little. What I am saying with this boastful confidence, I say not with the Lord's authority but as a fool. Since many boast according to the flesh, I too will boast. For you gladly bear with fools, being wise yourselves! For you bear it if someone makes slaves of you, or devours you, or takes advantage of you, or puts on airs, or strikes you in the face. To my shame, I must say, we were too weak for that!</p> <p id="p47011021.13-3">But whatever anyone else dares to boast of&#8212;I am speaking as a fool&#8212;I also dare to boast of that. Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they offspring of Abraham? So am I. Are they servants of Christ? I am a better one&#8212;I am talking like a madman&#8212;with far greater labors, far more imprisonments, with countless beatings, and often near death. Five times I received at the hands of the Jews the forty lashes less one. Three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned. Three times I was shipwrecked; a night and a day I was adrift at sea; on frequent journeys, in danger from rivers, danger from robbers, danger from my own people, danger from Gentiles, danger in the city, danger in the wilderness, danger at sea, danger from false brothers; in toil and hardship, through many a sleepless night, in hunger and thirst, often without food, in cold and exposure. And, apart from other things, there is the daily pressure on me of my anxiety for all the churches. Who is weak, and I am not weak? Who is made to fall, and I am not indignant?</p>  <p id="p47011030.01-3">If I must boast, I will boast of the things that show my weakness. The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, he who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying. At Damascus, the governor under King Aretas was guarding the city of Damascus in order to seize me, but I was let down in a basket through a window in the wall and escaped his hands.</p>   <p id="p47012001.06-3"><span class="chapter-num" id="v47012001-3">12:1&nbsp;</span>I must go on boasting. Though there is nothing to be gained by it, I will go on to visions and revelations of the Lord. I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago was caught up to the third heaven&#8212;whether in the body or out of the body I do not know, God knows. And I know that this man was caught up into paradise&#8212;whether in the body or out of the body I do not know, God knows&#8212; and he heard things that cannot be told, which man may not utter. On behalf of this man I will boast, but on my own behalf I will not boast, except of my weaknesses. Though if I should wish to boast, I would not be a fool, for I would be speaking the truth. But I refrain from it, so that no one may think more of me than he sees in me or hears from me. So to keep me from becoming conceited because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations, a thorn was given me in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to harass me, to keep me from becoming conceited. Three times I pleaded with the Lord about this, that it should leave me. But he said to me, <span class="woc">&#8220;My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.&#8221;</span> Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. For the sake of Christ, then, I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. For when I am weak, then I am strong.</p>   <p id="p47012011.06-3">I have been a fool! You forced me to it, for I ought to have been commended by you. For I was not at all inferior to these super-apostles, even though I am nothing. The signs of a true apostle were performed among you with utmost patience, with signs and wonders and mighty works. For in what were you less favored than the rest of the churches, except that I myself did not burden you? Forgive me this wrong!  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc23]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 15:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19015004.01-1">in whose eyes a vile person is despised,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>but who honors those who fear the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>;<br /> who swears to his own hurt and does not change;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc24]: <div class="esv"><h5>Philippians 4:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50004008.01-1">Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

