---
pagetitle: What are the duties required in the tenth commandment?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/08/24/
prev_date: Aug 24
this_url: /westminster-daily/08/25/
short_date: "0825"
this_date: Aug 25
next_url: /westminster-daily/08/26/
next_date: Aug 26
---

#### Shorter Catechism

<span class="q">Q 80.</span> What is required in the tenth commandment?

<span class="q">A.</span> The tenth commandment requireth full contentment with our own condition,[^fnref:wsc1] with a right and charitable frame of spirit toward our neighbor, and all that is his.[^fnref:wsc2]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 34:1</h5> <div class="esv-text">  <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19034001.28-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v19034001-1">34:1&nbsp;</span>I will bless the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> at all times;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>his praise shall continually be in my mouth.</p> </div> </div><h5>Philippians 4:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50004011.01-2">Not that I am speaking of being in need, for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content.</p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 6:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54006006.01-3">Now there is great gain in godliness with contentment,</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 13:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58013005.01-4">Keep your life free from love of money, and be content with what you have, for he has said, &#8220;I will never leave you nor forsake you.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Luke 15:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42015006.01-1"><span class="woc">And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and his neighbors, saying to them, &#8216;Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost.&#8217;</span></p> </div><h5>Luke 15:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42015009.01-2"><span class="woc">And when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, &#8216;Rejoice with me, for I have found the coin that I had lost.&#8217;</span></p> </div><h5>Luke 15:11-32</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p42015011.07-3">And he said, <span class="woc">&#8220;There was a man who had two sons.</span> <span class="woc">And the younger of them said to his father, &#8216;Father, give me the share of property that is coming to me.&#8217; And he divided his property between them.</span> <span class="woc">Not many days later, the younger son gathered all he had and took a journey into a far country, and there he squandered his property in reckless living.</span> <span class="woc">And when he had spent everything, a severe famine arose in that country, and he began to be in need.</span> <span class="woc">So he went and hired himself out to one of the citizens of that country, who sent him into his fields to feed pigs.</span> <span class="woc">And he was longing to be fed with the pods that the pigs ate, and no one gave him anything.</span></p>  <p id="p42015017.01-3"><span class="woc">&#8220;But when he came to himself, he said, &#8216;How many of my father's hired servants have more than enough bread, but I perish here with hunger!</span> <span class="woc">I will arise and go to my father, and I will say to him, &#8220;Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you.</span> <span class="woc">I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Treat me as one of your hired servants.&#8221;&#8217;</span> <span class="woc">And he arose and came to his father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt compassion, and ran and embraced him and kissed him.</span> <span class="woc">And the son said to him, &#8216;Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son.&#8217;</span> <span class="woc">But the father said to his servants, &#8216;Bring quickly the best robe, and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet.</span> <span class="woc">And bring the fattened calf and kill it, and let us eat and celebrate.</span> <span class="woc">For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found.&#8217; And they began to celebrate.</span></p>  <p id="p42015025.01-3"><span class="woc">&#8220;Now his older son was in the field, and as he came and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing.</span> <span class="woc">And he called one of the servants and asked what these things meant.</span> <span class="woc">And he said to him, &#8216;Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fattened calf, because he has received him back safe and sound.&#8217;</span> <span class="woc">But he was angry and refused to go in. His father came out and entreated him,</span> <span class="woc">but he answered his father, &#8216;Look, these many years I have served you, and I never disobeyed your command, yet you never gave me a young goat, that I might celebrate with my friends.</span> <span class="woc">But when this son of yours came, who has devoured your property with prostitutes, you killed the fattened calf for him!&#8217;</span> <span class="woc">And he said to him, &#8216;Son, you are always with me, and all that is mine is yours.</span> <span class="woc">It was fitting to celebrate and be glad, for this your brother was dead, and is alive; he was lost, and is found.&#8217;&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Romans 12:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45012015.01-4">Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep.</p> </div><h5>Philippians 2:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50002004.01-5">Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">Q 147.</span> What are the duties required in the tenth commandment?

<span class="q">A.</span> The duties required in the tenth commandment are, such a full contentment with our own condition,[^fnref:wlc1] and such a charitable frame of the whole soul toward our neighbor, as that all our inward motions and affections touching him, tend unto, and further all that good which is his.[^fnref:wlc2]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 13:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58013005.01-1">Keep your life free from love of money, and be content with what you have, for he has said, &#8220;I will never leave you nor forsake you.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 6:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54006006.01-2">Now there is great gain in godliness with contentment,</p> </div><h5>Philippians 4:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50004011.01-3">Not that I am speaking of being in need, for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Job 31:29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p18031029.01-1">&#8220;If I have rejoiced at the ruin of him who hated me,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>or exulted when evil overtook him</p> </div> </div><h5>Romans 12:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45012015.01-2">Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep.</p> </div><h5>Psalm 122:7-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19122007.01-3">Peace be within your walls<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and security within your towers!&#8221;<br />  For my brothers and companions' sake<br /> <span class="indent"></span>I will say, &#8220;Peace be within you!&#8221;<br />  For the sake of the house of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> our God,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>I will seek your good.</p> </div> </div><h5>1 Timothy 1:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54001005.01-4">The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith.</p> </div><h5>Esther 10:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p17010003.01-5">For Mordecai the Jew was second in rank to King Ahasuerus, and he was great among the Jews and popular with the multitude of his brothers, for he sought the welfare of his people and spoke peace to all his people.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 13:4-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46013004.01-6">Love is patient and kind; love does not envy or boast; it is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it is not irritable or resentful; it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

