---
pagetitle: What are the sins forbidden in the tenth commandment?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/08/25/
prev_date: Aug 25
this_url: /westminster-daily/08/26/
short_date: "0826"
this_date: Aug 26
next_url: /westminster-daily/08/27/
next_date: Aug 27
---

#### Shorter Catechism

81\. What is forbidden in the tenth commandment?

A. The tenth commandment forbiddeth all discontentment with our own estate,[^fnref:wsc1] envying or grieving at the good of our neighbor, and all inordinate motions and affections to anything that is his.[^fnref:wsc2]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 10:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46010010.01-1">nor grumble, as some of them did and were destroyed by the Destroyer.</p> </div><h5>James 3:14-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p59003014.01-2">But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast and be false to the truth. This is not the wisdom that comes down from above, but is earthly, unspiritual, demonic. For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there will be disorder and every vile practice.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Galatians 5:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48005026.01-1">Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another.</p> </div><h5>Colossians 3:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51003005.01-2">Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

148\. What are the sins forbidden in the tenth commandment?

A. The sins forbidden in the tenth commandment are, discontentment with our own estate;[^fnref:wlc1] envying[^fnref:wlc2] and grieving at the good of our neighbor,[^fnref:wlc3] together with all inordinate motions and affections to anything that is his.[^fnref:wlc4]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 10:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46010010.01-1">nor grumble, as some of them did and were destroyed by the Destroyer.</p> </div><h5>1 Kings 21:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p11021004.01-2">And Ahab went into his house vexed and sullen because of what Naboth the Jezreelite had said to him, for he had said, &#8220;I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers.&#8221; And he lay down on his bed and turned away his face and would eat no food.</p> </div><h5>Esther 5:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p17005013.01-3">Yet all this is worth nothing to me, so long as I see Mordecai the Jew sitting at the king's gate.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Galatians 5:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48005026.01-1">Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another.</p> </div><h5>James 3:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p59003014.01-2">But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast and be false to the truth.</p> </div><h5>James 3:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p59003016.01-3">For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there will be disorder and every vile practice.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 112:9-10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19112009.01-1">He has distributed freely; he has given to the poor;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>his righteousness endures forever;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>his horn is exalted in honor.<br />  The wicked man sees it and is angry;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he gnashes his teeth and melts away;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>the desire of the wicked will perish!</p> </div> </div><h5>Nehemiah 2:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p16002010.01-2">But when Sanballat the Horonite and Tobiah the Ammonite servant heard this, it displeased them greatly that someone had come to seek the welfare of the people of Israel.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 7:7-8</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45007007.05-1">What then shall we say? That the law is sin? By no means! Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, &#8220;You shall not covet.&#8221; But sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, produced in me all kinds of covetousness. For apart from the law, sin lies dead.</p> </div><h5>Romans 13:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45013009.01-2">For the commandments, &#8220;You shall not commit adultery, You shall not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not covet,&#8221; and any other commandment, are summed up in this word: &#8220;You shall love your neighbor as yourself.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Colossians 3:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51003005.01-3">Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry.</p> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 5:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05005021.01-4">&#8220;&#8216;And you shall not covet your neighbor's wife. And you shall not desire your neighbor's house, his field, or his male servant, or his female servant, his ox, or his donkey, or anything that is your neighbor's.&#8217;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

