---
pagetitle: Are all transgressions of the law of God equally heinous in themselves?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/08/27/
prev_date: Aug 27
this_url: /westminster-daily/08/28/
this_date: Aug 28
next_url: /westminster-daily/08/29/
next_date: Aug 29
---

#### Shorter Catechism

83\. Are all transgressions of the law equally heinous?

A. Some sins in themselves, and by reason of several aggravations, are more heinous in the sight of God than others.[^fnref:wsc1]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ezekiel 8:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26008006.01-1">And he said to me, &#8220;Son of man, do you see what they are doing, the great abominations that the house of Israel are committing here, to drive me far from my sanctuary? But you will see still greater abominations.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Ezekiel 8:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26008013.01-2">He said also to me, &#8220;You will see still greater abominations that they commit.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Ezekiel 8:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26008015.01-3">Then he said to me, &#8220;Have you seen this, O son of man? You will see still greater abominations than these.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Matthew 11:20-24</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40011020.05-4">Then he began to denounce the cities where most of his mighty works had been done, because they did not repent. <span class="woc">&#8220;Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes.</span> <span class="woc">But I tell you, it will be more bearable on the day of judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you.</span> <span class="woc">And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You will be brought down to Hades. For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day.</span> <span class="woc">But I tell you that it will be more tolerable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom than for you.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>John 19:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43019011.01-5">Jesus answered him, <span class="woc">&#8220;You would have no authority over me at all unless it had been given you from above. Therefore he who delivered me over to you has the greater sin.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

150\. Are all transgressions of the law of God equally heinous in themselves, and in the sight of God?

A. All transgressions of the law of God are not equally heinous; but some sins in themselves, and by reason of several aggravations, are more heinous in the sight of God than others.[^fnref:wlc1]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 19:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43019011.01-1">Jesus answered him, <span class="woc">&#8220;You would have no authority over me at all unless it had been given you from above. Therefore he who delivered me over to you has the greater sin.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>1 John 5:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62005016.01-2">If anyone sees his brother committing a sin not leading to death, he shall ask, and God will give him life&#8212;to those who commit sins that do not lead to death. There is sin that leads to death; I do not say that one should pray for that.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 2:2-3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58002002.01-3">For since the message declared by angels proved to be reliable, and every transgression or disobedience received a just retribution, how shall we escape if we neglect such a great salvation? It was declared at first by the Lord, and it was attested to us by those who heard,</p> </div><h5>Psalm 78:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19078017.01-4">Yet they sinned still more against him,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>rebelling against the Most High in the desert.</p> </div> </div><h5>Psalm 78:32</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19078032.01-5">In spite of all this, they still sinned;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>despite his wonders, they did not believe.</p> </div> </div><h5>Psalm 78:56</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19078056.01-6">Yet they tested and rebelled against the Most High God<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and did not keep his testimonies,</p> </div> </div><h5>Ezekiel 8:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26008006.01-7">And he said to me, &#8220;Son of man, do you see what they are doing, the great abominations that the house of Israel are committing here, to drive me far from my sanctuary? But you will see still greater abominations.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Ezekiel 8:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26008013.01-8">He said also to me, &#8220;You will see still greater abominations that they commit.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Ezekiel 8:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26008015.01-9">Then he said to me, &#8220;Have you seen this, O son of man? You will see still greater abominations than these.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

