---
pagetitle: What are those aggravations that make some sins more heinous than others?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/08/28/
prev_date: Aug 28
this_url: /westminster-daily/08/29/
this_date: Aug 29
next_url: /westminster-daily/08/30/
next_date: Aug 30
---

#### Larger Catechism

151\. What are those aggravations that make some sins more heinous than others?

A. Sins receive their aggravations,<ol><li>From the persons offending:[^fnref:wlc1] if they be of riper age,[^fnref:wlc2] greater experience or grace,[^fnref:wlc3] eminent for profession,[^fnref:wlc4] gifts,[^fnref:wlc5] place,[^fnref:wlc6] office,[^fnref:wlc7] guides to others,[^fnref:wlc8] and whose example is likely to be followed by others.[^fnref:wlc9]</li><li>From the parties offended:[^fnref:wlc10] if immediately against God,[^fnref:wlc11] his attributes,[^fnref:wlc12] and worship;[^fnref:wlc13] against Christ, and his grace;[^fnref:wlc14] the Holy Spirit,[^fnref:wlc15] his witness,[^fnref:wlc16] and workings;[^fnref:wlc17] against superiors, men of eminency,[^fnref:wlc18] and such as we stand especially related and engaged unto;[^fnref:wlc19] against any of the saints,[^fnref:wlc20] particularly weak brethren,[^fnref:wlc21] the souls of them, or any other,[^fnref:wlc22] and the common good of all or many.[^fnref:wlc23]</li><li>From the nature and quality of the offense:[^fnref:wlc24] if it be against the express letter of the law,[^fnref:wlc25] break many commandments, contain in it many sins:[^fnref:wlc26] if not only conceived in the heart, but breaks forth in words and actions,[^fnref:wlc27] scandalize others,[^fnref:wlc28] and admit of no reparation:[^fnref:wlc29] if against means,[^fnref:wlc30] mercies,[^fnref:wlc31] judgments,[^fnref:wlc32] light of nature,[^fnref:wlc33] conviction of conscience,[^fnref:wlc34] public or private admonition,[^fnref:wlc35] censures of the church,[^fnref:wlc36] civil punishments;[^fnref:wlc37] and our prayers, purposes, promises,[^fnref:wlc38] vows,[^fnref:wlc39] covenants,[^fnref:wlc40] and engagements to God or men:[^fnref:wlc41] if done deliberately,[^fnref:wlc42] willfully,[^fnref:wlc43] presumptuously,[^fnref:wlc44] impudently,[^fnref:wlc45] boastingly,[^fnref:wlc46] maliciously,[^fnref:wlc47] frequently,[^fnref:wlc48] obstinately,[^fnref:wlc49] with delight,[^fnref:wlc50] continuance,[^fnref:wlc51] or relapsing after repentance.[^fnref:wlc52]</li><li>From circumstances of time[^fnref:wlc53] and place:[^fnref:wlc54] if on the Lord's Day,[^fnref:wlc55] or other times of divine worship;[^fnref:wlc56] or immediately before[^fnref:wlc57] or after these,[^fnref:wlc58] or other helps to prevent or remedy such miscarriages:[^fnref:wlc59] if in public, or in the presence of others, who are thereby likely to be provoked or defiled.[^fnref:wlc60]</li></ol>


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Jeremiah 2:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p24002008.01-1">The priests did not say, &#8216;Where is the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>?&#8217;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>Those who handle the law did not know me;<br /> the shepherds transgressed against me;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>the prophets prophesied by Baal<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and went after things that do not profit.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Job 32:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p18032007.01-1">I said, &#8216;Let days speak,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and many years teach wisdom.&#8217;</p> </div> </div><h5>Job 32:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p18032009.01-2">It is not the old who are wise,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>nor the aged who understand what is right.</p> </div> </div><h5>Ecclesiastes 4:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p21004013.01-3">Better was a poor and wise youth than an old and foolish king who no longer knew how to take advice.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Kings 11:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p11011004.01-1">For when Solomon was old his wives turned away his heart after other gods, and his heart was not wholly true to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> his God, as was the heart of David his father.</p> </div><h5>1 Kings 11:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p11011009.05-2">And the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> was angry with Solomon, because his heart had turned away from the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, the God of Israel, who had appeared to him twice  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Samuel 12:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p10012014.01-1">Nevertheless, because by this deed you have utterly scorned the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, the child who is born to you shall die.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 5:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p46005001.06-2"><span class="chapter-num" id="v46005001-2">5:1&nbsp;</span>It is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you, and of a kind that is not tolerated even among pagans, for a man has his father's wife.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>James 4:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p59004017.01-1">So whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it, for him it is sin.</p> </div><h5>Luke 12:47-48</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42012047.01-2"><span class="woc">And that servant who knew his master's will but did not get ready or act according to his will, will receive a severe beating.</span> <span class="woc">But the one who did not know, and did what deserved a beating, will receive a light beating. Everyone to whom much was given, of him much will be required, and from him to whom they entrusted much, they will demand the more.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc6]: <div class="esv"><h5>Jeremiah 5:4-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p24005004.01-1">Then I said, &#8220;These are only the poor;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>they have no sense;<br /> for they do not know the way of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>the justice of their God.<br />  I will go to the great<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and will speak to them,<br /> for they know the way of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>the justice of their God.&#8221;<br /> But they all alike had broken the yoke;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>they had burst the bonds.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc7]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Samuel 12:7-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p10012007.01-1">Nathan said to David, &#8220;You are the man! Thus says the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, the God of Israel, &#8216;I anointed you king over Israel, and I delivered you out of the hand of Saul. And I gave you your master's house and your master's wives into your arms and gave you the house of Israel and of Judah. And if this were too little, I would add to you as much more. Why have you despised the word of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, to do what is evil in his sight? You have struck down Uriah the Hittite with the sword and have taken his wife to be your wife and have killed him with the sword of the Ammonites.</p> </div><h5>Ezekiel 8:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26008011.01-2">And before them stood seventy men of the elders of the house of Israel, with Jaazaniah the son of Shaphan standing among them. Each had his censer in his hand, and the smoke of the cloud of incense went up. Then he said to me, &#8220;Son of man, have you seen what the elders of the house of Israel are doing in the dark, each in his room of pictures? For they say, &#8216;The <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> does not see us, the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> has forsaken the land.&#8217;&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc8]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 2:17-24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45002017.01-1">But if you call yourself a Jew and rely on the law and boast in God and know his will and approve what is excellent, because you are instructed from the law; and if you are sure that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness, an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of children, having in the law the embodiment of knowledge and truth&#8212; you then who teach others, do you not teach yourself? While you preach against stealing, do you steal? You who say that one must not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples? You who boast in the law dishonor God by breaking the law. For, as it is written, &#8220;The name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc9]: <div class="esv"><h5>Galatians 2:11-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p48002011.04-1">But when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face, because he stood condemned. For before certain men came from James, he was eating with the Gentiles; but when they came he drew back and separated himself, fearing the circumcision party. And the rest of the Jews acted hypocritically along with him, so that even Barnabas was led astray by their hypocrisy. But when I saw that their conduct was not in step with the truth of the gospel, I said to Cephas before them all, &#8220;If you, though a Jew, live like a Gentile and not like a Jew, how can you force the Gentiles to live like Jews?&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc10]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 2:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19002012.01-1">Kiss the Son,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>lest he be angry, and you perish in the way,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his wrath is quickly kindled.<br /> Blessed are all who take refuge in him.</p> </div> </div><h5>Matthew 21:38-39</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40021038.01-2"><span class="woc">But when the tenants saw the son, they said to themselves, &#8216;This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and have his inheritance.&#8217;</span> <span class="woc">And they took him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc11]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Samuel 2:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p09002025.01-1">If someone sins against a man, God will mediate for him, but if someone sins against the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, who can intercede for him?&#8221; But they would not listen to the voice of their father, for it was the will of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> to put them to death.</p> </div><h5>Acts 5:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44005004.01-2">While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not at your disposal? Why is it that you have contrived this deed in your heart? You have not lied to men but to God.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Psalm 5:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19005004.01-3">For you are not a God who delights in wickedness;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>evil may not dwell with you.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc12]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 2:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45002004.01-1">Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance?  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc13]: <div class="esv"><h5>Malachi 1:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p39001008.01-1">When you offer blind animals in sacrifice, is that not evil? And when you offer those that are lame or sick, is that not evil? Present that to your governor; will he accept you or show you favor? says the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> of hosts.</p> </div><h5>Malachi 1:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p39001014.01-2">Cursed be the cheat who has a male in his flock, and vows it, and yet sacrifices to the Lord what is blemished. For I am a great King, says the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> of hosts, and my name will be feared among the nations.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc14]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 2:2-3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58002002.01-1">For since the message declared by angels proved to be reliable, and every transgression or disobedience received a just retribution, how shall we escape if we neglect such a great salvation? It was declared at first by the Lord, and it was attested to us by those who heard,</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 12:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58012025.01-2">See that you do not refuse him who is speaking. For if they did not escape when they refused him who warned them on earth, much less will we escape if we reject him who warns from heaven.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc15]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 10:28-29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58010028.01-1">Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses dies without mercy on the evidence of two or three witnesses. How much worse punishment, do you think, will be deserved by the one who has spurned the Son of God, and has profaned the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified, and has outraged the Spirit of grace?</p> </div><h5>Matthew 12:31-32</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40012031.01-2"><span class="woc">Therefore I tell you, every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven people, but the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven.</span> <span class="woc">And whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, either in this age or in the age to come.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc16]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 4:30</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49004030.01-1">And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc17]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 6:4-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58006004.01-1">For it is impossible, in the case of those who have once been enlightened, who have tasted the heavenly gift, and have shared in the Holy Spirit, and have tasted the goodness of the word of God and the powers of the age to come, and then have fallen away, to restore them again to repentance, since they are crucifying once again the Son of God to their own harm and holding him up to contempt.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc18]: <div class="esv"><h5>Jude 1:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p65001008.01-1">Yet in like manner these people also, relying on their dreams, defile the flesh, reject authority, and blaspheme the glorious ones.</p> </div><h5>Numbers 12:8-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p04012008.01-2">With him I speak mouth to mouth, clearly, and not in riddles, and he beholds the form of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. Why then were you not afraid to speak against my servant Moses?&#8221; And the anger of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> was kindled against them, and he departed.</p> </div><h5>Isaiah 3:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23003005.01-3">And the people will oppress one another,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>every one his fellow<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and every one his neighbor;<br /> the youth will be insolent to the elder,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and the despised to the honorable.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc19]: <div class="esv"><h5>Proverbs 30:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20030017.01-1">The eye that mocks a father<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and scorns to obey a mother<br /> will be picked out by the ravens of the valley<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and eaten by the vultures.</p> </div> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 12:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47012015.01-2">I will most gladly spend and be spent for your souls. If I love you more, am I to be loved less?</p> </div><h5>Psalm 55:12-15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19055012.01-3">For it is not an enemy who taunts me&#8212;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>then I could bear it;<br /> it is not an adversary who deals insolently with me&#8212;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>then I could hide from him.<br />  But it is you, a man, my equal,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>my companion, my familiar friend.<br />  We used to take sweet counsel together;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>within God's house we walked in the throng.<br />  Let death steal over them;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>let them go down to Sheol alive;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for evil is in their dwelling place and in their heart.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc20]: <div class="esv"><h5>Zephaniah 2:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p36002008.01-1">&#8220;I have heard the taunts of Moab<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and the revilings of the Ammonites,<br /> how they have taunted my people<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and made boasts against their territory.</p> </div> </div><h5>Zephaniah 2:10-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p36002010.01-2">This shall be their lot in return for their pride,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>because they taunted and boasted<br /> <span class="indent"></span>against the people of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> of hosts.<br />  The <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> will be awesome against them;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for he will famish all the gods of the earth,<br /> and to him shall bow down,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>each in its place,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>all the lands of the nations.</p> </div> </div><h5>Matthew 18:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40018006.01-3"><span class="woc">but whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him to have a great millstone fastened around his neck and to be drowned in the depth of the sea.</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 6:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46006008.01-4">But you yourselves wrong and defraud&#8212;even your own brothers!</p> </div><h5>Revelation 17:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66017006.01-5">And I saw the woman, drunk with the blood of the saints, the blood of the martyrs of Jesus.</p> <p id="p66017006.20-5">When I saw her, I marveled greatly.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc21]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 8:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46008011.01-1">And so by your knowledge this weak person is destroyed, the brother for whom Christ died. Thus, sinning against your brothers and wounding their conscience when it is weak, you sin against Christ.</p> </div><h5>Romans 14:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45014013.07-2">Therefore let us not pass judgment on one another any longer, but rather decide never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother.</p> </div><h5>Romans 14:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45014015.01-3">For if your brother is grieved by what you eat, you are no longer walking in love. By what you eat, do not destroy the one for whom Christ died.</p> </div><h5>Romans 14:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45014021.01-4">It is good not to eat meat or drink wine or do anything that causes your brother to stumble.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc22]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ezekiel 13:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26013019.01-1">You have profaned me among my people for handfuls of barley and for pieces of bread, putting to death souls who should not die and keeping alive souls who should not live, by your lying to my people, who listen to lies.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 8:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46008012.01-2">Thus, sinning against your brothers and wounding their conscience when it is weak, you sin against Christ.</p> </div><h5>Revelation 18:12-13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66018012.01-3">cargo of gold, silver, jewels, pearls, fine linen, purple cloth, silk, scarlet cloth, all kinds of scented wood, all kinds of articles of ivory, all kinds of articles of costly wood, bronze, iron and marble, cinnamon, spice, incense, myrrh, frankincense, wine, oil, fine flour, wheat, cattle and sheep, horses and chariots, and slaves, that is, human souls.</p> </div><h5>Matthew 23:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40023015.01-4"><span class="woc">Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you travel across sea and land to make a single proselyte, and when he becomes a proselyte, you make him twice as much a child of hell as yourselves.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc23]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Thessalonians 2:15-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p52002015.01-1">who killed both the Lord Jesus and the prophets, and drove us out, and displease God and oppose all mankind by hindering us from speaking to the Gentiles that they might be saved&#8212;so as always to fill up the measure of their sins. But God's wrath has come upon them at last!</p> </div><h5>Joshua 22:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p06022020.01-2">Did not Achan the son of Zerah break faith in the matter of the devoted things, and wrath fell upon all the congregation of Israel? And he did not perish alone for his iniquity.&#8217;&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc24]: <div class="esv"><h5>Proverbs 6:30-33</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20006030.01-1">People do not despise a thief if he steals<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to satisfy his appetite when he is hungry,<br />  but if he is caught, he will pay sevenfold;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he will give all the goods of his house.<br />  He who commits adultery lacks sense;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he who does it destroys himself.<br />  He will get wounds and dishonor,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and his disgrace will not be wiped away.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc25]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ezra 9:10-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p15009010.01-1">&#8220;And now, O our God, what shall we say after this? For we have forsaken your commandments, which you commanded by your servants the prophets, saying, &#8216;The land that you are entering, to take possession of it, is a land impure with the impurity of the peoples of the lands, with their abominations that have filled it from end to end with their uncleanness. Therefore do not give your daughters to their sons, neither take their daughters for your sons, and never seek their peace or prosperity, that you may be strong and eat the good of the land and leave it for an inheritance to your children forever.&#8217;</p> </div><h5>1 Kings 11:9-10</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p11011009.05-2">And the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> was angry with Solomon, because his heart had turned away from the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, the God of Israel, who had appeared to him twice and had commanded him concerning this thing, that he should not go after other gods. But he did not keep what the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> commanded.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc26]: <div class="esv"><h5>Colossians 3:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51003005.01-1">Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry.</p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 6:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54006010.01-2">For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs.</p> </div><h5>Proverbs 5:8-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20005008.01-3">Keep your way far from her,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and do not go near the door of her house,<br />  lest you give your honor to others<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and your years to the merciless,<br />  lest strangers take their fill of your strength,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and your labors go to the house of a foreigner,<br />  and at the end of your life you groan,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>when your flesh and body are consumed,<br />  and you say, &#8220;How I hated discipline,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and my heart despised reproof!</p> </div> </div><h5>Proverbs 6:32-33</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20006032.01-4">He who commits adultery lacks sense;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he who does it destroys himself.<br />  He will get wounds and dishonor,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and his disgrace will not be wiped away.</p> </div> </div><h5>Joshua 7:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p06007021.01-5">when I saw among the spoil a beautiful cloak from Shinar, and 200 shekels of silver, and a bar of gold weighing 50 shekels, then I coveted them and took them. And see, they are hidden in the earth inside my tent, with the silver underneath.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc27]: <div class="esv"><h5>James 1:14-15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p59001014.01-1">But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Then desire when it has conceived gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown brings forth death.</p> </div><h5>Matthew 5:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40005022.01-2"><span class="woc">But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother will be liable to judgment; whoever insults his brother will be liable to the council; and whoever says, &#8216;You fool!&#8217; will be liable to the hell of fire.</span></p> </div><h5>Micah 2:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p33002001.05-3"><span class="chapter-num" id="v33002001-3">2:1&nbsp;</span>Woe to those who devise wickedness<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and work evil on their beds!<br /> When the morning dawns, they perform it,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>because it is in the power of their hand.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc28]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 18:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40018007.04-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;Woe to the world for temptations to sin! For it is necessary that temptations come, but woe to the one by whom the temptation comes!</span></p> </div><h5>Romans 2:23-24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45002023.01-2">You who boast in the law dishonor God by breaking the law. For, as it is written, &#8220;The name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc29]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 22:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05022022.01-1">&#8220;If a man is found lying with the wife of another man, both of them shall die, the man who lay with the woman, and the woman. So you shall purge the evil from Israel.</p> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 22:28-29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05022028.01-2">&#8220;If a man meets a virgin who is not betrothed, and seizes her and lies with her, and they are found, then the man who lay with her shall give to the father of the young woman fifty shekels of silver, and she shall be his wife, because he has violated her. He may not divorce her all his days.</p> </div><h5>Proverbs 6:32-35</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20006032.01-3">He who commits adultery lacks sense;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he who does it destroys himself.<br />  He will get wounds and dishonor,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and his disgrace will not be wiped away.<br />  For jealousy makes a man furious,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and he will not spare when he takes revenge.<br />  He will accept no compensation;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he will refuse though you multiply gifts.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc30]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 11:21-24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40011021.01-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes.</span> <span class="woc">But I tell you, it will be more bearable on the day of judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you.</span> <span class="woc">And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You will be brought down to Hades. For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day.</span> <span class="woc">But I tell you that it will be more tolerable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom than for you.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>John 15:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43015022.01-2"><span class="woc">If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have been guilty of sin, but now they have no excuse for their sin.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc31]: <div class="esv"><h5>Isaiah 1:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23001003.01-1">The ox knows its owner,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and the donkey its master's crib,<br /> but Israel does not know,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>my people do not understand.&#8221;</p> </div> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 32:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p05032006.01-2">Do you thus repay the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>you foolish and senseless people?<br /> Is not he your father, who created you,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>who made you and established you?  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc32]: <div class="esv"><h5>Amos 4:8-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p30004008.01-1">so two or three cities would wander to another city<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to drink water, and would not be satisfied;<br /> yet you did not return to me,&#8221;<br /> <span class="declares-line"></span> declares the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p30004009.01-1">&#8220;I struck you with blight and mildew;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>your many gardens and your vineyards,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>your fig trees and your olive trees the locust devoured;<br /> yet you did not return to me,&#8221;<br /> <span class="declares-line"></span> declares the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p30004010.01-1">&#8220;I sent among you a pestilence after the manner of Egypt;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>I killed your young men with the sword,<br /> and carried away your horses,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and I made the stench of your camp go up into your nostrils;<br /> yet you did not return to me,&#8221;<br /> <span class="declares-line"></span> declares the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p30004011.01-1">&#8220;I overthrew some of you,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and you were as a brand plucked out of the burning;<br /> yet you did not return to me,&#8221;<br /> <span class="declares-line"></span> declares the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.</p> </div> </div><h5>Jeremiah 5:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p24005003.01-2">O <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, do not your eyes look for truth?<br /> You have struck them down,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>but they felt no anguish;<br /> you have consumed them,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>but they refused to take correction.<br /> They have made their faces harder than rock;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>they have refused to repent.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc33]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 1:26-27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45001026.01-1">For this reason God gave them up to dishonorable passions. For their women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to nature; and the men likewise gave up natural relations with women and were consumed with passion for one another, men committing shameless acts with men and receiving in themselves the due penalty for their error.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc34]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 1:32</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45001032.01-1">Though they know God's decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them but give approval to those who practice them.</p> </div><h5>Daniel 5:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p27005022.01-2">And you his son, Belshazzar, have not humbled your heart, though you knew all this,</p> </div><h5>Titus 3:10-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56003010.01-3">As for a person who stirs up division, after warning him once and then twice, have nothing more to do with him, knowing that such a person is warped and sinful; he is self-condemned.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc35]: <div class="esv"><h5>Proverbs 29:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20029001.01-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v20029001-1">29:1&nbsp;</span>He who is often reproved, yet stiffens his neck,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>will suddenly be broken beyond healing.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc36]: <div class="esv"><h5>Titus 3:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56003010.01-1">As for a person who stirs up division, after warning him once and then twice, have nothing more to do with him,</p> </div><h5>Matthew 18:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40018017.01-2"><span class="woc">If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc37]: <div class="esv"><h5>Proverbs 27:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20027022.01-1">Crush a fool in a mortar with a pestle<br /> <span class="indent"></span>along with crushed grain,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>yet his folly will not depart from him.</p> </div> </div><h5>Proverbs 23:35</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20023035.01-2">&#8220;They struck me,&#8221; you will say, &#8220;but I was not hurt;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>they beat me, but I did not feel it.<br /> When shall I awake?<br /> <span class="indent"></span>I must have another drink.&#8221;<br />   (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc38]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 78:34-37</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19078034.01-1">When he killed them, they sought him;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>they repented and sought God earnestly.<br />  They remembered that God was their rock,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>the Most High God their redeemer.<br />  But they flattered him with their mouths;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>they lied to him with their tongues.<br />  Their heart was not steadfast toward him;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>they were not faithful to his covenant.</p> </div> </div><h5>Jeremiah 2:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p24002020.01-2">&#8220;For long ago I broke your yoke<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and burst your bonds;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>but you said, &#8216;I will not serve.&#8217;<br /> Yes, on every high hill<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and under every green tree<br /> <span class="indent"></span>you bowed down like a whore.</p> </div> </div><h5>Jeremiah 13:5-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p24013005.01-3">So I went and hid it by the Euphrates, as the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> commanded me. And after many days the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> said to me, &#8220;Arise, go to the Euphrates, and take from there the loincloth that I commanded you to hide there.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Jeremiah 13:20-21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p24013020.01-4">&#8220;Lift up your eyes and see<br /> <span class="indent"></span>those who come from the north.<br /> Where is the flock that was given you,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>your beautiful flock?<br />  What will you say when they set as head over you<br /> <span class="indent"></span>those whom you yourself have taught to be friends to you?<br /> Will not pangs take hold of you<br /> <span class="indent"></span>like those of a woman in labor?  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc39]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ecclesiastes 5:4-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p21005004.01-1">When you vow a vow to God, do not delay paying it, for he has no pleasure in fools. Pay what you vow. It is better that you should not vow than that you should vow and not pay. Let not your mouth lead you into sin, and do not say before the messenger that it was a mistake. Why should God be angry at your voice and destroy the work of your hands?</p> </div><h5>Proverbs 20:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20020025.01-2">It is a snare to say rashly, &#8220;It is holy,&#8221;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and to reflect only after making vows.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc40]: <div class="esv"><h5>Leviticus 26:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p03026025.01-1">And I will bring a sword upon you, that shall execute vengeance for the covenant. And if you gather within your cities, I will send pestilence among you, and you shall be delivered into the hand of the enemy.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc41]: <div class="esv"><h5>Proverbs 2:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20002017.01-1">who forsakes the companion of her youth<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and forgets the covenant of her God;</p> </div> </div><h5>Ezekiel 7:18-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26007018.01-2">They put on sackcloth, and horror covers them. Shame is on all faces, and baldness on all their heads. They cast their silver into the streets, and their gold is like an unclean thing. Their silver and gold are not able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. They cannot satisfy their hunger or fill their stomachs with it. For it was the stumbling block of their iniquity.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc42]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 36:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19036004.01-1">He plots trouble while on his bed;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he sets himself in a way that is not good;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he does not reject evil.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc43]: <div class="esv"><h5>Jeremiah 6:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p24006016.01-1">Thus says the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>:<br /> &#8220;Stand by the roads, and look,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and ask for the ancient paths,<br /> where the good way is; and walk in it,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and find rest for your souls.<br /> But they said, &#8216;We will not walk in it.&#8217;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc44]: <div class="esv"><h5>Numbers 15:30</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p04015030.01-1">But the person who does anything with a high hand, whether he is native or a sojourner, reviles the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, and that person shall be cut off from among his people.</p> </div><h5>Exodus 21:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02021014.01-2">But if a man willfully attacks another to kill him by cunning, you shall take him from my altar, that he may die.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc45]: <div class="esv"><h5>Jeremiah 3:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p24003003.01-1">Therefore the showers have been withheld,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and the spring rain has not come;<br /> yet you have the forehead of a whore;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>you refuse to be ashamed.</p> </div> </div><h5>Proverbs 7:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20007013.01-2">She seizes him and kisses him,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and with bold face she says to him,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc46]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 52:1</h5> <div class="esv-text">  <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19052001.30-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v19052001-1">52:1&nbsp;</span>Why do you boast of evil, O mighty man?<br /> <span class="indent"></span>The steadfast love of God endures all the day.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc47]: <div class="esv"><h5>3 John 1:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p64001010.01-1">So if I come, I will bring up what he is doing, talking wicked nonsense against us. And not content with that, he refuses to welcome the brothers, and also stops those who want to and puts them out of the church.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc48]: <div class="esv"><h5>Numbers 14:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p04014022.01-1">none of the men who have seen my glory and my signs that I did in Egypt and in the wilderness, and yet have put me to the test these ten times and have not obeyed my voice,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc49]: <div class="esv"><h5>Zechariah 7:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p38007011.01-1">But they refused to pay attention and turned a stubborn shoulder and stopped their ears that they might not hear. They made their hearts diamond-hard lest they should hear the law and the words that the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> of hosts had sent by his Spirit through the former prophets. Therefore great anger came from the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> of hosts.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc50]: <div class="esv"><h5>Proverbs 2:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20002014.01-1">who rejoice in doing evil<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and delight in the perverseness of evil,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc51]: <div class="esv"><h5>Isaiah 57:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23057017.01-1">Because of the iniquity of his unjust gain I was angry,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>I struck him; I hid my face and was angry,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>but he went on backsliding in the way of his own heart.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc52]: <div class="esv"><h5>Jeremiah 34:8-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p24034008.01-1">The word that came to Jeremiah from the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, after King Zedekiah had made a covenant with all the people in Jerusalem to make a proclamation of liberty to them, that everyone should set free his Hebrew slaves, male and female, so that no one should enslave a Jew, his brother. And they obeyed, all the officials and all the people who had entered into the covenant that everyone would set free his slave, male or female, so that they would not be enslaved again. They obeyed and set them free. But afterward they turned around and took back the male and female slaves they had set free, and brought them into subjection as slaves.</p> </div><h5>2 Peter 2:20-22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p61002020.01-2">For if, after they have escaped the defilements of the world through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again entangled in them and overcome, the last state has become worse for them than the first. For it would have been better for them never to have known the way of righteousness than after knowing it to turn back from the holy commandment delivered to them. What the true proverb says has happened to them: &#8220;The dog returns to its own vomit, and the sow, after washing herself, returns to wallow in the mire.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc53]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Kings 5:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p12005026.01-1">But he said to him, &#8220;Did not my heart go when the man turned from his chariot to meet you? Was it a time to accept money and garments, olive orchards and vineyards, sheep and oxen, male servants and female servants?  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc54]: <div class="esv"><h5>Jeremiah 7:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p24007010.01-1">and then come and stand before me in this house, which is called by my name, and say, &#8216;We are delivered!&#8217;&#8212;only to go on doing all these abominations?</p> </div><h5>Isaiah 26:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23026010.01-2">If favor is shown to the wicked,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he does not learn righteousness;<br /> in the land of uprightness he deals corruptly<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and does not see the majesty of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc55]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ezekiel 23:37-39</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26023037.01-1">For they have committed adultery, and blood is on their hands. With their idols they have committed adultery, and they have even offered up to them for food the children whom they had borne to me. Moreover, this they have done to me: they have defiled my sanctuary on the same day and profaned my Sabbaths. For when they had slaughtered their children in sacrifice to their idols, on the same day they came into my sanctuary to profane it. And behold, this is what they did in my house.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc56]: <div class="esv"><h5>Isaiah 58:3-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23058003.01-1">&#8216;Why have we fasted, and you see it not?<br /> <span class="indent"></span>Why have we humbled ourselves, and you take no knowledge of it?&#8217;<br /> Behold, in the day of your fast you seek your own pleasure,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and oppress all your workers.<br />  Behold, you fast only to quarrel and to fight<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and to hit with a wicked fist.<br /> Fasting like yours this day<br /> <span class="indent"></span>will not make your voice to be heard on high.<br />  Is such the fast that I choose,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>a day for a person to humble himself?<br /> Is it to bow down his head like a reed,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him?<br /> Will you call this a fast,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and a day acceptable to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>?</p> </div> </div><h5>Numbers 25:6-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p04025006.01-2">And behold, one of the people of Israel came and brought a Midianite woman to his family, in the sight of Moses and in the sight of the whole congregation of the people of Israel, while they were weeping in the entrance of the tent of meeting. When Phinehas the son of Eleazar, son of Aaron the priest, saw it, he rose and left the congregation and took a spear in his hand  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc57]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 11:20-21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011020.01-1">When you come together, it is not the Lord's supper that you eat. For in eating, each one goes ahead with his own meal. One goes hungry, another gets drunk.</p> </div><h5>Jeremiah 7:8-10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p24007008.01-2">&#8220;Behold, you trust in deceptive words to no avail. Will you steal, murder, commit adultery, swear falsely, make offerings to Baal, and go after other gods that you have not known, and then come and stand before me in this house, which is called by my name, and say, &#8216;We are delivered!&#8217;&#8212;only to go on doing all these abominations?  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc58]: <div class="esv"><h5>Proverbs 7:14-15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20007014.01-1">&#8220;I had to offer sacrifices,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and today I have paid my vows;<br />  so now I have come out to meet you,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to seek you eagerly, and I have found you.</p> </div> </div><h5>John 13:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43013027.01-2">Then after he had taken the morsel, Satan entered into him. Jesus said to him, <span class="woc">&#8220;What you are going to do, do quickly.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>John 13:30</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43013030.01-3">So, after receiving the morsel of bread, he immediately went out. And it was night.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc59]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ezra 9:13-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p15009013.01-1">And after all that has come upon us for our evil deeds and for our great guilt, seeing that you, our God, have punished us less than our iniquities deserved and have given us such a remnant as this, shall we break your commandments again and intermarry with the peoples who practice these abominations? Would you not be angry with us until you consumed us, so that there should be no remnant, nor any to escape?  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc60]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Samuel 16:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p10016022.01-1">So they pitched a tent for Absalom on the roof. And Absalom went in to his father's concubines in the sight of all Israel.</p> </div><h5>1 Samuel 2:22-24</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p09002022.05-2">Now Eli was very old, and he kept hearing all that his sons were doing to all Israel, and how they lay with the women who were serving at the entrance to the tent of meeting. And he said to them, &#8220;Why do you do such things? For I hear of your evil dealings from all the people. No, my sons; it is no good report that I hear the people of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> spreading abroad.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

