---
pagetitle: Of Christian liberty, and liberty of conscience, part 4
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/09/02/
prev_date: Sep 2
this_url: /westminster-daily/09/03/
short_date: "0903"
this_date: Sep 3
next_url: /westminster-daily/09/04/
next_date: Sep 4
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 20: Of Christian Liberty, and Liberty of Conscience

<span class="q">4.</span> And because the powers which God hath ordained, and the liberty which Christ hath purchased, are not intended by God to destroy, but mutually to uphold and preserve one another, they who, upon pretense of Christian liberty, shall oppose any lawful power, or the lawful exercise of it, whether it be civil or ecclesiastical, resist the ordinance of God.[^fnref:wcf1] And, for their publishing of such opinions, or maintaining of such practices, as are contrary to the light of nature, or to the known principles of Christianity (whether concerning faith, worship, or conversation), or to the power of godliness; or, such erroneous opinions or practices, as either in their own nature, or in the manner of publishing or maintaining them, are destructive to the external peace and order which Christ hath established in the church, they may lawfully be called to account, and proceeded against, by the censures of the church.[^fnref:wcf2]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 12:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40012025.01-1">Knowing their thoughts, he said to them, <span class="woc">&#8220;Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and no city or house divided against itself will stand.</span></p> </div><h5>1 Peter 2:13-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p60002013.04-2">Be subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution, whether it be to the emperor as supreme, or to governors as sent by him to punish those who do evil and to praise those who do good.</p> </div><h5>1 Peter 2:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60002016.01-3">Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil, but living as servants of God.</p> </div><h5>Romans 13:1-8</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45013001.05-4"><span class="chapter-num" id="v45013001-4">13:1&nbsp;</span>Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God. Therefore whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment. For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval, for he is God's servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. Therefore one must be in subjection, not only to avoid God's wrath but also for the sake of conscience. For because of this you also pay taxes, for the authorities are ministers of God, attending to this very thing. Pay to all what is owed to them: taxes to whom taxes are owed, revenue to whom revenue is owed, respect to whom respect is owed, honor to whom honor is owed.</p>   <p id="p45013008.06-4">Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one who loves another has fulfilled the law.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 13:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58013017.01-5">Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they are keeping watch over your souls, as those who will have to give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with groaning, for that would be of no advantage to you.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 1:32</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45001032.01-1">Though they know God's decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them but give approval to those who practice them.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 5:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p46005001.06-2"><span class="chapter-num" id="v46005001-2">5:1&nbsp;</span>It is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you, and of a kind that is not tolerated even among pagans, for a man has his father's wife.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 5:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46005005.01-3">you are to deliver this man to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, so that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 5:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46005011.01-4">But now I am writing to you not to associate with anyone who bears the name of brother if he is guilty of sexual immorality or greed, or is an idolater, reviler, drunkard, or swindler&#8212;not even to eat with such a one.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 5:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46005013.01-5">God judges those outside. &#8220;Purge the evil person from among you.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>2 John 1:10-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p63001010.01-6">If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting, for whoever greets him takes part in his wicked works.</p> </div><h5>2 Thessalonians 3:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p53003014.01-7">If anyone does not obey what we say in this letter, take note of that person, and have nothing to do with him, that he may be ashamed.</p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 6:3-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54006003.01-8">If anyone teaches a different doctrine and does not agree with the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ and the teaching that accords with godliness, he is puffed up with conceit and understands nothing. He has an unhealthy craving for controversy and for quarrels about words, which produce envy, dissension, slander, evil suspicions, and constant friction among people who are depraved in mind and deprived of the truth, imagining that godliness is a means of gain.</p> </div><h5>Titus 1:10-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56001010.01-9">For there are many who are insubordinate, empty talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision party. They must be silenced, since they are upsetting whole families by teaching for shameful gain what they ought not to teach.</p> </div><h5>Titus 1:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56001013.01-10">This testimony is true. Therefore rebuke them sharply, that they may be sound in the faith,</p> </div><h5>Titus 3:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56003010.01-11">As for a person who stirs up division, after warning him once and then twice, have nothing more to do with him,</p> </div><h5>Matthew 18:15-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40018015.07-12"><span class="woc">&#8220;If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault, between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother.</span> <span class="woc">But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses.</span> <span class="woc">If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector.</span></p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 1:19-20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54001019.01-13">holding faith and a good conscience. By rejecting this, some have made shipwreck of their faith, among whom are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan that they may learn not to blaspheme.</p> </div><h5>Revelation 2:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="chapter-first" id="p66002002.01-14"><span class="woc">&#8220;&#8216;I know your works, your toil and your patient endurance, and how you cannot bear with those who are evil, but have tested those who call themselves apostles and are not, and found them to be false.</span></p> </div><h5>Revelation 2:14-15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66002014.01-15"><span class="woc">But I have a few things against you: you have some there who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, so that they might eat food sacrificed to idols and practice sexual immorality.</span> <span class="woc">So also you have some who hold the teaching of the Nicolaitans.</span></p> </div><h5>Revelation 2:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66002020.01-16"><span class="woc">But I have this against you, that you tolerate that woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess and is teaching and seducing my servants to practice sexual immorality and to eat food sacrificed to idols.</span></p> </div><h5>Revelation 3:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66003009.01-17"><span class="woc">Behold, I will make those of the synagogue of Satan who say that they are Jews and are not, but lie&#8212;behold, I will make them come and bow down before your feet and they will learn that I have loved you.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

