---
pagetitle: What is prayer?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/09/06/
prev_date: Sep 6
this_url: /westminster-daily/09/07/
short_date: 0907
this_date: Sep 7
next_url: /westminster-daily/09/08/
next_date: Sep 8
---

#### Shorter Catechism

98\. What is prayer?

A. Prayer is an offering up of our desires unto God,[^fnref:wsc1] for things agreeable to his will,[^fnref:wsc2] in the name of Christ,[^fnref:wsc3] with confession of our sins,[^fnref:wsc4] and thankful acknowledgment of his mercies.[^fnref:wsc5]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 10:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19010017.01-1">O <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, you hear the desire of the afflicted;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>you will strengthen their heart; you will incline your ear</p> </div> </div><h5>Psalm 62:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19062008.01-2">Trust in him at all times, O people;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>pour out your heart before him;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>God is a refuge for us. <span class="selah">Selah</span></p> </div> </div><h5>Matthew 7:7-8</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40007007.07-3"><span class="woc">&#8220;Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.</span> <span class="woc">For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 John 5:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62005014.01-1">And this is the confidence that we have toward him, that if we ask anything according to his will he hears us.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 16:23-24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43016023.01-1"><span class="woc">In that day you will ask nothing of me. Truly, truly, I say to you, whatever you ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you.</span> <span class="woc">Until now you have asked nothing in my name. Ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be full.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 32:5-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19032005.01-1">I acknowledged my sin to you,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and I did not cover my iniquity;<br /> I said, &#8220;I will confess my transgressions to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>,&#8221;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. <span class="selah">Selah</span></p>  <p class="line-group" id="p19032006.01-1">Therefore let everyone who is godly<br /> <span class="indent"></span>offer prayer to you at a time when you may be found;<br /> surely in the rush of great waters,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>they shall not reach him.</p> </div> </div><h5>Daniel 9:4-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p27009004.01-2">I prayed to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> my God and made confession, saying, &#8220;O Lord, the great and awesome God, who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments, we have sinned and done wrong and acted wickedly and rebelled, turning aside from your commandments and rules. We have not listened to your servants the prophets, who spoke in your name to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, and to all the people of the land. To you, O Lord, belongs righteousness, but to us open shame, as at this day, to the men of Judah, to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to all Israel, those who are near and those who are far away, in all the lands to which you have driven them, because of the treachery that they have committed against you. To us, O <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, belongs open shame, to our kings, to our princes, and to our fathers, because we have sinned against you. To the Lord our God belong mercy and forgiveness, for we have rebelled against him and have not obeyed the voice of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> our God by walking in his laws, which he set before us by his servants the prophets. All Israel has transgressed your law and turned aside, refusing to obey your voice. And the curse and oath that are written in the Law of Moses the servant of God have been poured out upon us, because we have sinned against him. He has confirmed his words, which he spoke against us and against our rulers who ruled us, by bringing upon us a great calamity. For under the whole heaven there has not been done anything like what has been done against Jerusalem. As it is written in the Law of Moses, all this calamity has come upon us; yet we have not entreated the favor of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> our God, turning from our iniquities and gaining insight by your truth. Therefore the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> has kept ready the calamity and has brought it upon us, for the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> our God is righteous in all the works that he has done, and we have not obeyed his voice. And now, O Lord our God, who brought your people out of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand, and have made a name for yourself, as at this day, we have sinned, we have done wickedly.</p>  <p id="p27009016.01-2">&#8220;O Lord, according to all your righteous acts, let your anger and your wrath turn away from your city Jerusalem, your holy hill, because for our sins, and for the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and your people have become a byword among all who are around us. Now therefore, O our God, listen to the prayer of your servant and to his pleas for mercy, and for your own sake, O Lord, make your face to shine upon your sanctuary, which is desolate. O my God, incline your ear and hear. Open your eyes and see our desolations, and the city that is called by your name. For we do not present our pleas before you because of our righteousness, but because of your great mercy. O Lord, hear; O Lord, forgive. O Lord, pay attention and act. Delay not, for your own sake, O my God, because your city and your people are called by your name.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>1 John 1:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62001009.01-3">If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 103:1-5</h5> <div class="esv-text">  <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19103001.09-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v19103001-1">103:1&nbsp;</span>Bless the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, O my soul,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and all that is within me,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>bless his holy name!<br />  Bless the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, O my soul,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and forget not all his benefits,<br />  who forgives all your iniquity,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>who heals all your diseases,<br />  who redeems your life from the pit,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy,<br />  who satisfies you with good<br /> <span class="indent"></span>so that your youth is renewed like the eagle's.</p> </div> </div><h5>Psalm 136</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19136001.06-2"><span class="chapter-num" id="v19136001-2">136:1&nbsp;</span>Give thanks to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, for he is good,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever.<br />  Give thanks to the God of gods,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever.<br />  Give thanks to the Lord of lords,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p19136004.01-2">to him who alone does great wonders,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  to him who by understanding made the heavens,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  to him who spread out the earth above the waters,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  to him who made the great lights,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  the sun to rule over the day,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  the moon and stars to rule over the night,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p19136010.01-2">to him who struck down the firstborn of Egypt,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  and brought Israel out from among them,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  with a strong hand and an outstretched arm,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  to him who divided the Red Sea in two,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  and made Israel pass through the midst of it,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  but overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  to him who led his people through the wilderness,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p19136017.01-2">to him who struck down great kings,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  and killed mighty kings,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  Sihon, king of the Amorites,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  and Og, king of Bashan,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  and gave their land as a heritage,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  a heritage to Israel his servant,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p19136023.01-2">It is he who remembered us in our low estate,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  and rescued us from our foes,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  he who gives food to all flesh,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p19136026.01-2">Give thanks to the God of heaven,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever.</p> </div> </div><h5>Philippians 4:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50004006.01-3">do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

178\. What is prayer?

A. Prayer is an offering up of our desires unto God,[^fnref:wlc1] in the name of Christ,[^fnref:wlc2] by the help of his Spirit;[^fnref:wlc3] with confession of our sins,[^fnref:wlc4] and thankful acknowledgment of his mercies.[^fnref:wlc5]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 10:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19010017.01-1">O <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, you hear the desire of the afflicted;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>you will strengthen their heart; you will incline your ear</p> </div> </div><h5>Psalm 62:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19062008.01-2">Trust in him at all times, O people;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>pour out your heart before him;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>God is a refuge for us. <span class="selah">Selah</span></p> </div> </div><h5>Matthew 7:7-8</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40007007.07-3"><span class="woc">&#8220;Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.</span> <span class="woc">For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 16:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43016023.01-1"><span class="woc">In that day you will ask nothing of me. Truly, truly, I say to you, whatever you ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 8:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008026.01-1">Likewise the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do not know what to pray for as we ought, but the Spirit himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 32:5-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19032005.01-1">I acknowledged my sin to you,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and I did not cover my iniquity;<br /> I said, &#8220;I will confess my transgressions to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>,&#8221;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. <span class="selah">Selah</span></p>  <p class="line-group" id="p19032006.01-1">Therefore let everyone who is godly<br /> <span class="indent"></span>offer prayer to you at a time when you may be found;<br /> surely in the rush of great waters,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>they shall not reach him.</p> </div> </div><h5>1 John 1:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62001009.01-2">If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.</p> </div><h5>Daniel 9:4-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p27009004.01-3">I prayed to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> my God and made confession, saying, &#8220;O Lord, the great and awesome God, who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments, we have sinned and done wrong and acted wickedly and rebelled, turning aside from your commandments and rules. We have not listened to your servants the prophets, who spoke in your name to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, and to all the people of the land. To you, O Lord, belongs righteousness, but to us open shame, as at this day, to the men of Judah, to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to all Israel, those who are near and those who are far away, in all the lands to which you have driven them, because of the treachery that they have committed against you. To us, O <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, belongs open shame, to our kings, to our princes, and to our fathers, because we have sinned against you. To the Lord our God belong mercy and forgiveness, for we have rebelled against him and have not obeyed the voice of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> our God by walking in his laws, which he set before us by his servants the prophets. All Israel has transgressed your law and turned aside, refusing to obey your voice. And the curse and oath that are written in the Law of Moses the servant of God have been poured out upon us, because we have sinned against him. He has confirmed his words, which he spoke against us and against our rulers who ruled us, by bringing upon us a great calamity. For under the whole heaven there has not been done anything like what has been done against Jerusalem. As it is written in the Law of Moses, all this calamity has come upon us; yet we have not entreated the favor of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> our God, turning from our iniquities and gaining insight by your truth. Therefore the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> has kept ready the calamity and has brought it upon us, for the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> our God is righteous in all the works that he has done, and we have not obeyed his voice. And now, O Lord our God, who brought your people out of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand, and have made a name for yourself, as at this day, we have sinned, we have done wickedly.</p>  <p id="p27009016.01-3">&#8220;O Lord, according to all your righteous acts, let your anger and your wrath turn away from your city Jerusalem, your holy hill, because for our sins, and for the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and your people have become a byword among all who are around us. Now therefore, O our God, listen to the prayer of your servant and to his pleas for mercy, and for your own sake, O Lord, make your face to shine upon your sanctuary, which is desolate. O my God, incline your ear and hear. Open your eyes and see our desolations, and the city that is called by your name. For we do not present our pleas before you because of our righteousness, but because of your great mercy. O Lord, hear; O Lord, forgive. O Lord, pay attention and act. Delay not, for your own sake, O my God, because your city and your people are called by your name.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Philippians 4:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50004006.01-1">do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God.</p> </div><h5>Psalm 103:1-5</h5> <div class="esv-text">  <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19103001.09-2"><span class="chapter-num" id="v19103001-2">103:1&nbsp;</span>Bless the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, O my soul,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and all that is within me,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>bless his holy name!<br />  Bless the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, O my soul,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and forget not all his benefits,<br />  who forgives all your iniquity,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>who heals all your diseases,<br />  who redeems your life from the pit,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy,<br />  who satisfies you with good<br /> <span class="indent"></span>so that your youth is renewed like the eagle's.</p> </div> </div><h5>Psalm 136</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19136001.06-3"><span class="chapter-num" id="v19136001-3">136:1&nbsp;</span>Give thanks to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, for he is good,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever.<br />  Give thanks to the God of gods,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever.<br />  Give thanks to the Lord of lords,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p19136004.01-3">to him who alone does great wonders,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  to him who by understanding made the heavens,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  to him who spread out the earth above the waters,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  to him who made the great lights,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  the sun to rule over the day,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  the moon and stars to rule over the night,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p19136010.01-3">to him who struck down the firstborn of Egypt,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  and brought Israel out from among them,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  with a strong hand and an outstretched arm,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  to him who divided the Red Sea in two,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  and made Israel pass through the midst of it,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  but overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  to him who led his people through the wilderness,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p19136017.01-3">to him who struck down great kings,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  and killed mighty kings,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  Sihon, king of the Amorites,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  and Og, king of Bashan,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  and gave their land as a heritage,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  a heritage to Israel his servant,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p19136023.01-3">It is he who remembered us in our low estate,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  and rescued us from our foes,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever;<br />  he who gives food to all flesh,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p19136026.01-3">Give thanks to the God of heaven,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

