---
pagetitle: What is it to pray in the name of Christ?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/09/08/
prev_date: Sep 8
this_url: /westminster-daily/09/09/
this_date: Sep 9
next_url: /westminster-daily/09/10/
next_date: Sep 10
---

#### Larger Catechism

180\. What is it to pray in the name of Christ?

A. To pray in the name of Christ is, in obedience to his command, and in confidence on his promises, to ask mercy for his sake;[^fnref:wlc1] not by bare mentioning of his name,[^fnref:wlc2] but by drawing our encouragement to pray, and our boldness, strength, and hope of acceptance in prayer, from Christ and his mediation.[^fnref:wlc3]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 14:13-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43014013.01-1"><span class="woc">Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.</span> <span class="woc">If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it.</span></p> </div><h5>John 16:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43016024.01-2"><span class="woc">Until now you have asked nothing in my name. Ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be full.</span></p> </div><h5>Daniel 9:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p27009017.01-3">Now therefore, O our God, listen to the prayer of your servant and to his pleas for mercy, and for your own sake, O Lord, make your face to shine upon your sanctuary, which is desolate.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 7:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40007021.05-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;Not everyone who says to me, &#8216;Lord, Lord,&#8217; will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 4:14-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p58004014.06-1">Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need.</p> </div><h5>1 John 5:13-15</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p62005013.05-2">I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know that you have eternal life. And this is the confidence that we have toward him, that if we ask anything according to his will he hears us. And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we have asked of him.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

