---
pagetitle: Why are we to pray in the name of Christ?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/09/09/
prev_date: Sep 9
this_url: /westminster-daily/09/10/
this_date: Sep 10
next_url: /westminster-daily/09/11/
next_date: Sep 11
---

#### Larger Catechism

181\. Why are we to pray in the name of Christ?

A. The sinfulness of man, and his distance from God by reason thereof, being so great, as that we can have no access into his presence without a mediator;[^fnref:wlc1] and there being none in heaven or earth appointed to, or fit for, that glorious work but Christ alone,[^fnref:wlc2] we are to pray in no other name but his only.[^fnref:wlc3]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 14:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43014006.01-1">Jesus said to him, <span class="woc">&#8220;I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me.</span></p> </div><h5>Isaiah 59:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23059002.01-2">but your iniquities have made a separation<br /> <span class="indent"></span>between you and your God,<br /> and your sins have hidden his face from you<br /> <span class="indent"></span>so that he does not hear.</p> </div> </div><h5>Ephesians 3:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49003012.01-3">in whom we have boldness and access with confidence through our faith in him.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 6:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43006027.01-1"><span class="woc">Do not labor for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him God the Father has set his seal.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Hebrews 7:25-27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58007025.01-2">Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them.</p>  <p id="p58007026.01-2">For it was indeed fitting that we should have such a high priest, holy, innocent, unstained, separated from sinners, and exalted above the heavens. He has no need, like those high priests, to offer sacrifices daily, first for his own sins and then for those of the people, since he did this once for all when he offered up himself.</p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 2:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54002005.01-3">For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Colossians 3:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51003017.01-1">And whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 13:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58013015.01-2">Through him then let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of lips that acknowledge his name.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

