---
pagetitle: Of religious worship, and the Sabbath day, part 4
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/09/11/
prev_date: Sep 11
this_url: /westminster-daily/09/12/
short_date: "0912"
this_date: Sep 12
next_url: /westminster-daily/09/13/
next_date: Sep 13
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 21: Of Religious Worship, and the Sabbath Day

<span class="q">Q 4.</span> Prayer is to be made for things lawful;[^fnref:wcf1] and for all sorts of men living, or that shall live hereafter:[^fnref:wcf2] but not for the dead,[^fnref:wcf3] nor for those of whom it may be known that they have sinned the sin unto death.[^fnref:wcf4]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 John 5:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62005014.01-1">And this is the confidence that we have toward him, that if we ask anything according to his will he hears us.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Timothy 2:1-2</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p54002001.05-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v54002001-1">2:1&nbsp;</span>First of all, then, I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people, for kings and all who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified in every way.</p> </div><h5>John 17:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43017020.01-2"><span class="woc">&#8220;I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word,</span></p> </div><h5>2 Samuel 7:29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p10007029.01-3">Now therefore may it please you to bless the house of your servant, so that it may continue forever before you. For you, O Lord <span class="small-caps">God</span>, have spoken, and with your blessing shall the house of your servant be blessed forever.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Ruth 4:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p08004012.01-4">and may your house be like the house of Perez, whom Tamar bore to Judah, because of the offspring that the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> will give you by this young woman.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Samuel 12:21-23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p10012021.01-1">Then his servants said to him, &#8220;What is this thing that you have done? You fasted and wept for the child while he was alive; but when the child died, you arose and ate food.&#8221; He said, &#8220;While the child was still alive, I fasted and wept, for I said, &#8216;Who knows whether the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> will be gracious to me, that the child may live?&#8217; But now he is dead. Why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he will not return to me.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Luke 16:25-26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42016025.01-2"><span class="woc">But Abraham said, &#8216;Child, remember that you in your lifetime received your good things, and Lazarus in like manner bad things; but now he is comforted here, and you are in anguish.</span> <span class="woc">And besides all this, between us and you a great chasm has been fixed, in order that those who would pass from here to you may not be able, and none may cross from there to us.&#8217;</span></p> </div><h5>Revelation 14:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66014013.01-3">And I heard a voice from heaven saying, &#8220;Write this: Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on.&#8221; &#8220;Blessed indeed,&#8221; says the Spirit, &#8220;that they may rest from their labors, for their deeds follow them!&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 John 5:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62005016.01-1">If anyone sees his brother committing a sin not leading to death, he shall ask, and God will give him life&#8212;to those who commit sins that do not lead to death. There is sin that leads to death; I do not say that one should pray for that.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

