---
pagetitle: Of religious worship, and the Sabbath day, part 5
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/09/14/
prev_date: Sep 14
this_url: /westminster-daily/09/15/
short_date: "0915"
this_date: Sep 15
next_url: /westminster-daily/09/16/
next_date: Sep 16
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 21: Of Religious Worship, and the Sabbath Day

5\. The reading of the Scriptures with godly fear,[^fnref:wcf1] the sound preaching[^fnref:wcf2] and conscionable hearing of the Word, in obedience unto God, with understanding, faith, and reverence,[^fnref:wcf3] singing of psalms with grace in the heart;[^fnref:wcf4] as also, the due administration and worthy receiving of the sacraments instituted by Christ, are all parts of the ordinary religious worship of God:[^fnref:wcf5] beside religious oaths,[^fnref:wcf6] vows,[^fnref:wcf7] solemn fastings,[^fnref:wcf8] and thanksgivings upon special occasions,[^fnref:wcf9] which are, in their several times and seasons, to be used in an holy and religious manner.[^fnref:wcf10]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 15:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44015021.01-1">For from ancient generations Moses has had in every city those who proclaim him, for he is read every Sabbath in the synagogues.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Revelation 1:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66001003.01-2">Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear, and who keep what is written in it, for the time is near.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Timothy 4:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p55004002.01-1">preach the word; be ready in season and out of season; reprove, rebuke, and exhort, with complete patience and teaching.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>James 1:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p59001022.01-1">But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves.</p> </div><h5>Acts 10:33</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44010033.01-2">So I sent for you at once, and you have been kind enough to come. Now therefore we are all here in the presence of God to hear all that you have been commanded by the Lord.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Matthew 13:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40013019.01-3"><span class="woc">When anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, the evil one comes and snatches away what has been sown in his heart. This is what was sown along the path.</span></p> </div><h5>Hebrews 4:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58004002.01-4">For good news came to us just as to them, but the message they heard did not benefit them, because they were not united by faith with those who listened.</p> </div><h5>Isaiah 66:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23066002.01-5">All these things my hand has made,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and so all these things came to be,<br /> <span class="declares-line"></span> declares the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.<br /> But this is the one to whom I will look:<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he who is humble and contrite in spirit<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and trembles at my word.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Colossians 3:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51003016.01-1">Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, with thankfulness in your hearts to God.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 5:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49005019.01-2">addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart,</p> </div><h5>James 5:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p59005013.05-3">Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 28:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40028019.01-1"><span class="woc">Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 11:23-28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011023.01-2">For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, <span class="woc">&#8220;This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.</p>  <p id="p46011027.01-2">Whoever, therefore, eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty concerning the body and blood of the Lord. Let a person examine himself, then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup.</p> </div><h5>Acts 2:42</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p44002042.06-3">And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf6]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 6:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05006013.01-1">It is the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God you shall fear. Him you shall serve and by his name you shall swear.</p> </div><h5>Nehemiah 10:29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p16010029.01-2">join with their brothers, their nobles, and enter into a curse and an oath to walk in God's Law that was given by Moses the servant of God, and to observe and do all the commandments of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> our Lord and his rules and his statutes.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf7]: <div class="esv"><h5>Isaiah 19:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p23019021.01-1">And the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> will make himself known to the Egyptians, and the Egyptians will know the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> in that day and worship with sacrifice and offering, and they will make vows to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> and perform them.</p> </div><h5>Ecclesiastes 5:4-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p21005004.01-2">When you vow a vow to God, do not delay paying it, for he has no pleasure in fools. Pay what you vow. It is better that you should not vow than that you should vow and not pay.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf8]: <div class="esv"><h5>Joel 2:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p29002012.05-1">&#8220;Yet even now,&#8221; declares the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>&#8220;return to me with all your heart,<br /> with fasting, with weeping, and with mourning;</p> </div> </div><h5>Esther 4:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p17004016.01-2">&#8220;Go, gather all the Jews to be found in Susa, and hold a fast on my behalf, and do not eat or drink for three days, night or day. I and my young women will also fast as you do. Then I will go to the king, though it is against the law, and if I perish, I perish.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Matthew 9:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40009015.01-3">And Jesus said to them, <span class="woc">&#8220;Can the wedding guests mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast.</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 7:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46007005.01-4">Do not deprive one another, except perhaps by agreement for a limited time, that you may devote yourselves to prayer; but then come together again, so that Satan may not tempt you because of your lack of self-control.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf9]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 107</h5> <div class="esv-text">  <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19107001.11-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v19107001-1">107:1&nbsp;</span>Oh give thanks to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, for he is good,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his steadfast love endures forever!<br />  Let the redeemed of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> say so,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>whom he has redeemed from trouble<br />  and gathered in from the lands,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>from the east and from the west,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>from the north and from the south.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p19107004.01-1">Some wandered in desert wastes,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>finding no way to a city to dwell in;<br />  hungry and thirsty,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>their soul fainted within them.<br />  Then they cried to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> in their trouble,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and he delivered them from their distress.<br />  He led them by a straight way<br /> <span class="indent"></span>till they reached a city to dwell in.<br />  Let them thank the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> for his steadfast love,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his wondrous works to the children of man!<br />  For he satisfies the longing soul,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and the hungry soul he fills with good things.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p19107010.01-1">Some sat in darkness and in the shadow of death,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>prisoners in affliction and in irons,<br />  for they had rebelled against the words of God,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and spurned the counsel of the Most High.<br />  So he bowed their hearts down with hard labor;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>they fell down, with none to help.<br />  Then they cried to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> in their trouble,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and he delivered them from their distress.<br />  He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and burst their bonds apart.<br />  Let them thank the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> for his steadfast love,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his wondrous works to the children of man!<br />  For he shatters the doors of bronze<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and cuts in two the bars of iron.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p19107017.01-1">Some were fools through their sinful ways,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and because of their iniquities suffered affliction;<br />  they loathed any kind of food,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and they drew near to the gates of death.<br />  Then they cried to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> in their trouble,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and he delivered them from their distress.<br />  He sent out his word and healed them,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and delivered them from their destruction.<br />  Let them thank the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> for his steadfast love,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his wondrous works to the children of man!<br />  And let them offer sacrifices of thanksgiving,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and tell of his deeds in songs of joy!</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p19107023.01-1">Some went down to the sea in ships,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>doing business on the great waters;<br />  they saw the deeds of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>his wondrous works in the deep.<br />  For he commanded and raised the stormy wind,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>which lifted up the waves of the sea.<br />  They mounted up to heaven; they went down to the depths;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>their courage melted away in their evil plight;<br />  they reeled and staggered like drunken men<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and were at their wits' end.<br />  Then they cried to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> in their trouble,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and he delivered them from their distress.<br />  He made the storm be still,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and the waves of the sea were hushed.<br />  Then they were glad that the waters were quiet,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and he brought them to their desired haven.<br />  Let them thank the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> for his steadfast love,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for his wondrous works to the children of man!<br />  Let them extol him in the congregation of the people,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and praise him in the assembly of the elders.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p19107033.01-1">He turns rivers into a desert,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>springs of water into thirsty ground,<br />  a fruitful land into a salty waste,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>because of the evil of its inhabitants.<br />  He turns a desert into pools of water,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>a parched land into springs of water.<br />  And there he lets the hungry dwell,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and they establish a city to live in;<br />  they sow fields and plant vineyards<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and get a fruitful yield.<br />  By his blessing they multiply greatly,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and he does not let their livestock diminish.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p19107039.01-1">When they are diminished and brought low<br /> <span class="indent"></span>through oppression, evil, and sorrow,<br />  he pours contempt on princes<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and makes them wander in trackless wastes;<br />  but he raises up the needy out of affliction<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and makes their families like flocks.<br />  The upright see it and are glad,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and all wickedness shuts its mouth.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p19107043.01-1">Whoever is wise, let him attend to these things;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>let them consider the steadfast love of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.</p> </div> </div><h5>Esther 9:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p17009022.01-2">as the days on which the Jews got relief from their enemies, and as the month that had been turned for them from sorrow into gladness and from mourning into a holiday; that they should make them days of feasting and gladness, days for sending gifts of food to one another and gifts to the poor.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf10]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 12:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58012028.01-1">Therefore let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, and thus let us offer to God acceptable worship, with reverence and awe,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

