---
pagetitle: Of religious worship, and the Sabbath day, part 6
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/09/15/
prev_date: Sep 15
this_url: /westminster-daily/09/16/
this_date: Sep 16
next_url: /westminster-daily/09/17/
next_date: Sep 17
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 21: Of Religious Worship, and the Sabbath Day

6\. Neither prayer, nor any other part of religious worship, is now, under the gospel, either tied unto, or made more acceptable by any place in which it is performed, or towards which it is directed:[^fnref:wcf1] but God is to be worshiped everywhere,[^fnref:wcf2] in spirit and truth;[^fnref:wcf3] as, in private families[^fnref:wcf4] daily,[^fnref:wcf5] and in secret, each one by himself;[^fnref:wcf6] so, more solemnly in the public assemblies, which are not carelessly or willfully to be neglected, or forsaken, when God, by his Word or providence, calleth thereunto.[^fnref:wcf7]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 4:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43004021.01-1">Jesus said to her, <span class="woc">&#8220;Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Malachi 1:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p39001011.01-1">For from the rising of the sun to its setting my name will be great among the nations, and in every place incense will be offered to my name, and a pure offering. For my name will be great among the nations, says the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> of hosts.</p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 2:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54002008.01-2">I desire then that in every place the men should pray, lifting holy hands without anger or quarreling;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 4:23-24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43004023.01-1"><span class="woc">But the hour is coming, and is now here, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for the Father is seeking such people to worship him.</span> <span class="woc">God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Jeremiah 10:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p24010025.01-1">Pour out your wrath on the nations that know you not,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and on the peoples that call not on your name,<br /> for they have devoured Jacob;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>they have devoured him and consumed him,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and have laid waste his habitation.</p> </div> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 6:6-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05006006.01-2">And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise.</p> </div><h5>Job 1:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p18001005.01-3">And when the days of the feast had run their course, Job would send and consecrate them, and he would rise early in the morning and offer burnt offerings according to the number of them all. For Job said, &#8220;It may be that my children have sinned, and cursed God in their hearts.&#8221; Thus Job did continually.</p> </div><h5>2 Samuel 6:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p10006018.01-4">And when David had finished offering the burnt offerings and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> of hosts</p> </div><h5>2 Samuel 6:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p10006020.01-5">And David returned to bless his household. But Michal the daughter of Saul came out to meet David and said, &#8220;How the king of Israel honored himself today, uncovering himself today before the eyes of his servants' female servants, as one of the vulgar fellows shamelessly uncovers himself!&#8221;</p> </div><h5>1 Peter 3:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60003007.01-6">Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel, since they are heirs with you of the grace of life, so that your prayers may not be hindered.</p> </div><h5>Acts 10:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44010002.01-7">a devout man who feared God with all his household, gave alms generously to the people, and prayed continually to God.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 6:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p40006011.01-1"><span class="woc">Give us this day our daily bread,</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf6]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 6:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40006006.01-1"><span class="woc">But when you pray, go into your room and shut the door and pray to your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you.</span></p> </div><h5>Ephesians 6:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49006018.01-2">praying at all times in the Spirit, with all prayer and supplication. To that end keep alert with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf7]: <div class="esv"><h5>Isaiah 56:6-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23056006.01-1">&#8220;And the foreigners who join themselves to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to minister to him, to love the name of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and to be his servants,<br /> everyone who keeps the Sabbath and does not profane it,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and holds fast my covenant&#8212;<br />  these I will bring to my holy mountain,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and make them joyful in my house of prayer;<br /> their burnt offerings and their sacrifices<br /> <span class="indent"></span>will be accepted on my altar;<br /> for my house shall be called a house of prayer<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for all peoples.&#8221;</p> </div> </div><h5>Hebrews 10:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58010025.01-2">not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the Day drawing near.</p> </div><h5>Proverbs 1:20-21</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20001020.05-3">Wisdom cries aloud in the street,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>in the markets she raises her voice;<br />  at the head of the noisy streets she cries out;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>at the entrance of the city gates she speaks:</p> </div> </div><h5>Proverbs 1:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20001024.01-4">Because I have called and you refused to listen,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>have stretched out my hand and no one has heeded,</p> </div> </div><h5>Proverbs 8:34</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20008034.01-5">Blessed is the one who listens to me,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>watching daily at my gates,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>waiting beside my doors.</p> </div> </div><h5>Acts 13:42</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44013042.01-6">As they went out, the people begged that these things might be told them the next Sabbath.</p> </div><h5>Luke 4:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p42004016.05-7">And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up. And as was his custom, he went to the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and he stood up to read.</p> </div><h5>Acts 2:42</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p44002042.06-8">And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

