---
pagetitle: Which day of the seven hath God appointed to be the weekly Sabbath?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/09/17/
prev_date: Sep 17
this_url: /westminster-daily/09/18/
short_date: 0918
this_date: Sep 18
next_url: /westminster-daily/09/19/
next_date: Sep 19
---

#### Shorter Catechism

59\. Which day of the seven hath God appointed to be the weekly sabbath?

A. From the beginning of the world to the resurrection of Christ, God appointed the seventh day of the week to be the weekly Sabbath;[^fnref:wsc1] and the first day of the week ever since, to continue to the end of the world, which is the Christian Sabbath.[^fnref:wsc2]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 2:2-3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01002002.01-1">And on the seventh day God finished his work that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done. So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation.</p> </div><h5>Exodus 20:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02020011.01-2">For in six days the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Therefore the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Mark 2:27-28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p41002027.01-1">And he said to them, <span class="woc">&#8220;The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath.</span> <span class="woc">So the Son of Man is lord even of the Sabbath.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Acts 20:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p44020007.06-2">On the first day of the week, when we were gathered together to break bread, Paul talked with them, intending to depart on the next day, and he prolonged his speech until midnight.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 16:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46016002.01-3">On the first day of every week, each of you is to put something aside and store it up, as he may prosper, so that there will be no collecting when I come.</p> </div><h5>Revelation 1:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66001010.01-4">I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

116\. What is required in the fourth commandment?

A. The fourth commandment requireth of all men the sanctifying or keeping holy to God such set times as he hath appointed in his Word, expressly one whole day in seven; which was the seventh from the beginning of the world to the resurrection of Christ, and the first day of the week ever since, and so to continue to the end of the world; which is the Christian sabbath,[^fnref:wlc1] and in the New Testament called the Lord's Day.[^fnref:wlc2]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 5:12-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05005012.01-1">&#8220;&#8216;Observe the Sabbath day, to keep it holy, as the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God commanded you. Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God. On it you shall not do any work, you or your son or your daughter or your male servant or your female servant, or your ox or your donkey or any of your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates, that your male servant and your female servant may rest as well as you.</p> </div><h5>Genesis 2:2-3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01002002.01-2">And on the seventh day God finished his work that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done. So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 16:1-2</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p46016001.06-3"><span class="chapter-num" id="v46016001-3">16:1&nbsp;</span>Now concerning the collection for the saints: as I directed the churches of Galatia, so you also are to do. On the first day of every week, each of you is to put something aside and store it up, as he may prosper, so that there will be no collecting when I come.</p> </div><h5>Acts 20:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p44020007.06-4">On the first day of the week, when we were gathered together to break bread, Paul talked with them, intending to depart on the next day, and he prolonged his speech until midnight.</p> </div><h5>John 20:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p43020019.06-5">On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, <span class="woc">&#8220;Peace be with you.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>John 20:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43020026.01-6">Eight days later, his disciples were inside again, and Thomas was with them. Although the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, <span class="woc">&#8220;Peace be with you.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 5:17-18</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40005017.07-7"><span class="woc">&#8220;Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them.</span> <span class="woc">For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law until all is accomplished.</span></p> </div><h5>Isaiah 56:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23056002.01-8">Blessed is the man who does this,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and the son of man who holds it fast,<br /> who keeps the Sabbath, not profaning it,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and keeps his hand from doing any evil.&#8221;</p> </div> </div><h5>Isaiah 56:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23056004.01-9">For thus says the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>:<br /> &#8220;To the eunuchs who keep my Sabbaths,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>who choose the things that please me<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and hold fast my covenant,</p> </div> </div><h5>Isaiah 56:6-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23056006.01-10">&#8220;And the foreigners who join themselves to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to minister to him, to love the name of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and to be his servants,<br /> everyone who keeps the Sabbath and does not profane it,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and holds fast my covenant&#8212;<br />  these I will bring to my holy mountain,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and make them joyful in my house of prayer;<br /> their burnt offerings and their sacrifices<br /> <span class="indent"></span>will be accepted on my altar;<br /> for my house shall be called a house of prayer<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for all peoples.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Revelation 1:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66001010.01-1">I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

