---
pagetitle: Of religious worship, and the Sabbath day, part 8
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/09/18/
prev_date: Sep 18
this_url: /westminster-daily/09/19/
short_date: "0919"
this_date: Sep 19
next_url: /westminster-daily/09/20/
next_date: Sep 20
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 21: Of Religious Worship, and the Sabbath Day

<span class="q">Q 8.</span> This Sabbath is then kept holy unto the Lord, when men, after a due preparing of their hearts, and ordering of their common affairs beforehand, do not only observe an holy rest, all the day, from their own works, words, and thoughts about their worldly employments and recreations,[^fnref:wcf1] but also are taken up, the whole time, in the public and private exercises of his worship, and in the duties of necessity and mercy.[^fnref:wcf2]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Exodus 20:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02020008.01-1">&#8220;Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy.</p> </div><h5>Exodus 16:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02016023.01-2">he said to them, &#8220;This is what the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> has commanded: &#8216;Tomorrow is a day of solemn rest, a holy Sabbath to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>; bake what you will bake and boil what you will boil, and all that is left over lay aside to be kept till the morning.&#8217;&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Exodus 16:25-26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02016025.01-3">Moses said, &#8220;Eat it today, for today is a Sabbath to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>; today you will not find it in the field. Six days you shall gather it, but on the seventh day, which is a Sabbath, there will be none.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Exodus 16:29-30</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02016029.01-4">See! The <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> has given you the Sabbath; therefore on the sixth day he gives you bread for two days. Remain each of you in his place; let no one go out of his place on the seventh day.&#8221; So the people rested on the seventh day.</p> </div><h5>Exodus 31:15-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02031015.01-5">Six days shall work be done, but the seventh day is a Sabbath of solemn rest, holy to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. Whoever does any work on the Sabbath day shall be put to death. Therefore the people of Israel shall keep the Sabbath, observing the Sabbath throughout their generations, as a covenant forever. It is a sign forever between me and the people of Israel that in six days the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day he rested and was refreshed.&#8217;&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Isaiah 58:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23058013.01-6">&#8220;If you turn back your foot from the Sabbath,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>from doing your pleasure on my holy day,<br /> and call the Sabbath a delight<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and the holy day of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> honorable;<br /> if you honor it, not going your own ways,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>or seeking your own pleasure, or talking idly;</p> </div> </div><h5>Nehemiah 13:15-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p16013015.01-7">In those days I saw in Judah people treading winepresses on the Sabbath, and bringing in heaps of grain and loading them on donkeys, and also wine, grapes, figs, and all kinds of loads, which they brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day. And I warned them on the day when they sold food. Tyrians also, who lived in the city, brought in fish and all kinds of goods and sold them on the Sabbath to the people of Judah, in Jerusalem itself! Then I confronted the nobles of Judah and said to them, &#8220;What is this evil thing that you are doing, profaning the Sabbath day? Did not your fathers act in this way, and did not our God bring all this disaster on us and on this city? Now you are bringing more wrath on Israel by profaning the Sabbath.&#8221;</p>  <p id="p16013019.01-7">As soon as it began to grow dark at the gates of Jerusalem before the Sabbath, I commanded that the doors should be shut and gave orders that they should not be opened until after the Sabbath. And I stationed some of my servants at the gates, that no load might be brought in on the Sabbath day.</p> </div><h5>Nehemiah 13:21-22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p16013021.01-8">But I warned them and said to them, &#8220;Why do you lodge outside the wall? If you do so again, I will lay hands on you.&#8221; From that time on they did not come on the Sabbath. Then I commanded the Levites that they should purify themselves and come and guard the gates, to keep the Sabbath day holy. Remember this also in my favor, O my God, and spare me according to the greatness of your steadfast love.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Isaiah 58:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23058013.01-1">&#8220;If you turn back your foot from the Sabbath,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>from doing your pleasure on my holy day,<br /> and call the Sabbath a delight<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and the holy day of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> honorable;<br /> if you honor it, not going your own ways,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>or seeking your own pleasure, or talking idly;</p> </div> </div><h5>Matthew 12:1-13</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40012001.07-2"><span class="chapter-num" id="v40012001-2">12:1&nbsp;</span>At that time Jesus went through the grainfields on the Sabbath. His disciples were hungry, and they began to pluck heads of grain and to eat. But when the Pharisees saw it, they said to him, &#8220;Look, your disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath.&#8221; He said to them, <span class="woc">&#8220;Have you not read what David did when he was hungry, and those who were with him:</span> <span class="woc">how he entered the house of God and ate the bread of the Presence, which it was not lawful for him to eat nor for those who were with him, but only for the priests?</span> <span class="woc">Or have you not read in the Law how on the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath and are guiltless?</span> <span class="woc">I tell you, something greater than the temple is here.</span> <span class="woc">And if you had known what this means, &#8216;I desire mercy, and not sacrifice,&#8217; you would not have condemned the guiltless.</span> <span class="woc">For the Son of Man is lord of the Sabbath.&#8221;</span></p>   <p id="p40012009.07-2">He went on from there and entered their synagogue. And a man was there with a withered hand. And they asked him, &#8220;Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?&#8221;&#8212;so that they might accuse him. He said to them, <span class="woc">&#8220;Which one of you who has a sheep, if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not take hold of it and lift it out?</span> <span class="woc">Of how much more value is a man than a sheep! So it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath.&#8221;</span> Then he said to the man, <span class="woc">&#8220;Stretch out your hand.&#8221;</span> And the man stretched it out, and it was restored, healthy like the other.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

