---
pagetitle: Of the Lord's Supper, part 2
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/11/30/
prev_date: Nov 30
this_url: /westminster-daily/12/01/
short_date: 1201
this_date: Dec 1
next_url: /westminster-daily/12/02/
next_date: Dec 2
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 29: Of the Lord's Supper

2\. In this sacrament, Christ is not offered up to his Father; nor any real sacrifice made at all, for remission of sins of the quick or dead;[^fnref:wcf1] but only a commemoration of that one offering up of himself, by himself, upon the cross, once for all: and a spiritual oblation of all possible praise unto God, for the same:[^fnref:wcf2] so that the popish sacrifice of the mass (as they call it) is most abominably injurious to Christ's one, only sacrifice, the alone propitiation for all the sins of his elect.[^fnref:wcf3]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 9:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58009022.01-1">Indeed, under the law almost everything is purified with blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 9:25-26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58009025.01-2">Nor was it to offer himself repeatedly, as the high priest enters the holy places every year with blood not his own, for then he would have had to suffer repeatedly since the foundation of the world. But as it is, he has appeared once for all at the end of the ages to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 9:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58009028.01-3">so Christ, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, not to deal with sin but to save those who are eagerly waiting for him.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 11:24-26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011024.01-1">and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, <span class="woc">&#8220;This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.</p> </div><h5>Matthew 26:26-27</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40026026.06-2">Now as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and after blessing it broke it and gave it to the disciples, and said, <span class="woc">&#8220;Take, eat; this is my body.&#8221;</span> And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;Drink of it, all of you,</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 7:23-24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58007023.01-1">The former priests were many in number, because they were prevented by death from continuing in office, but he holds his priesthood permanently, because he continues forever.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 7:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58007027.01-2">He has no need, like those high priests, to offer sacrifices daily, first for his own sins and then for those of the people, since he did this once for all when he offered up himself.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 10:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58010011.01-3">And every priest stands daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God,</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 10:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58010014.01-4">For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 10:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p58010018.01-5">Where there is forgiveness of these, there is no longer any offering for sin.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

