---
pagetitle: How hath Christ appointed bread and wine to be given and received?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/12/01/
prev_date: Dec 1
this_url: /westminster-daily/12/02/
short_date: "1202"
this_date: Dec 2
next_url: /westminster-daily/12/03/
next_date: Dec 3
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 29: Of the Lord's Supper

<span class="q">3.</span> The Lord Jesus hath, in this ordinance, appointed his ministers to declare his word of institution to the people; to pray, and bless the elements of bread and wine, and thereby to set them apart from a common to an holy use; and to take and break the bread, to take the cup, and (they communicating also themselves) to give both to the communicants;[^fnref:wcf1] but to none who are not then present in the congregation.[^fnref:wcf2]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 26:26-28</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40026026.06-1">Now as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and after blessing it broke it and gave it to the disciples, and said, <span class="woc">&#8220;Take, eat; this is my body.&#8221;</span> And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;Drink of it, all of you,</span> <span class="woc">for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.</span></p> </div><h5>Mark 14:22-24</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p41014022.06-2">And as they were eating, he took bread, and after blessing it broke it and gave it to them, and said, <span class="woc">&#8220;Take; this is my body.&#8221;</span> And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, and they all drank of it. And he said to them, <span class="woc">&#8220;This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many.</span></p> </div><h5>Luke 22:19-20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42022019.01-3">And he took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and gave it to them, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;This is my body, which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> And likewise the cup after they had eaten, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;This cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood.</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 11:23-26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011023.01-4">For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, <span class="woc">&#8220;This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 20:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p44020007.06-1">On the first day of the week, when we were gathered together to break bread, Paul talked with them, intending to depart on the next day, and he prolonged his speech until midnight.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 11:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011020.01-2">When you come together, it is not the Lord's supper that you eat.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">169.</span> How hath Christ appointed bread and wine to be given and received in the sacrament of the Lord's Supper?

<span class="q">A.</span> Christ hath appointed the ministers of his Word, in the administration of this sacrament of the Lord's Supper, to set apart the bread and wine from common use, by the word of institution, thanksgiving, and prayer; to take and break the bread, and to give both the bread and the wine to the communicants: who are, by the same appointment, to take and eat the bread, and to drink the wine, in thankful remembrance that the body of Christ was broken and given, and his blood shed, for them.[^fnref:wlc1]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 11:23-24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011023.01-1">For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, <span class="woc">&#8220;This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 26:26-28</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40026026.06-2">Now as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and after blessing it broke it and gave it to the disciples, and said, <span class="woc">&#8220;Take, eat; this is my body.&#8221;</span> And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;Drink of it, all of you,</span> <span class="woc">for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.</span></p> </div><h5>Mark 14:22-24</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p41014022.06-3">And as they were eating, he took bread, and after blessing it broke it and gave it to them, and said, <span class="woc">&#8220;Take; this is my body.&#8221;</span> And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, and they all drank of it. And he said to them, <span class="woc">&#8220;This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many.</span></p> </div><h5>Luke 22:19-20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42022019.01-4">And he took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and gave it to them, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;This is my body, which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> And likewise the cup after they had eaten, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;This cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

