---
pagetitle: How do they that worthily communicate in the Lord's Supper feed upon Christ therein?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/12/05/
prev_date: Dec 5
this_url: /westminster-daily/12/06/
this_date: Dec 6
next_url: /westminster-daily/12/07/
next_date: Dec 7
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 29: Of the Lord's Supper

7\. Worthy receivers, outwardly partaking of the visible elements, in this sacrament,[^fnref:wcf1] do then also, inwardly by faith, really and indeed, yet not carnally and corporally but spiritually, receive, and feed upon, Christ crucified, and all benefits of his death: the body and blood of Christ being then, not corporally or carnally, in, with, or under the bread and wine; yet, as really, but spiritually, present to the faith of believers in that ordinance, as the elements themselves are to their outward senses.[^fnref:wcf2]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 11:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011028.01-1">Let a person examine himself, then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 10:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46010016.01-1">The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ?  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

170\. How do they that worthily communicate in the Lord's supper feed upon the body and blood of Christ therein?

A. As the body and blood of Christ are not corporally or carnally present in, with, or under the bread and wine in the Lord's Supper,[^fnref:wlc1] and yet are spiritually present to the faith of the receiver, no less truly and really than the elements themselves are to their outward senses;[^fnref:wlc2] so they that worthily communicate in the sacrament of the Lord's Supper, do therein feed upon the body and blood of Christ, not after a corporal and carnal, but in a spiritual manner; yet truly and really,[^fnref:wlc3] while by faith they receive and apply unto themselves Christ crucified, and all the benefits of his death.[^fnref:wlc4]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 3:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44003021.01-1">whom heaven must receive until the time for restoring all the things about which God spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets long ago.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 26:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40026026.06-1">Now as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and after blessing it broke it and gave it to the disciples, and said, <span class="woc">&#8220;Take, eat; this is my body.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 26:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40026028.01-2"><span class="woc">for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 11:24-29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011024.01-1">and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, <span class="woc">&#8220;This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.</p>  <p id="p46011027.01-1">Whoever, therefore, eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty concerning the body and blood of the Lord. Let a person examine himself, then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself.</p> </div><h5>John 6:51</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43006051.01-2"><span class="woc">I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>John 6:53</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43006053.01-3">So Jesus said to them, <span class="woc">&#8220;Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 10:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46010016.01-1">The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ?  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

