---
pagetitle: Of the Lord's Supper, part 8
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/12/06/
prev_date: Dec 6
this_url: /westminster-daily/12/07/
this_date: Dec 7
next_url: /westminster-daily/12/08/
next_date: Dec 8
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 29: Of the Lord's Supper

8. Although ignorant and wicked men receive the outward elements in this sacrament; yet, they receive not the thing signified thereby; but, by their unworthy coming thereunto, are guilty of the body and blood of the Lord, to their own damnation. Wherefore, all ignorant and ungodly persons, as they are unfit to enjoy communion with him, so are they unworthy of the Lord's table; and cannot, without great sin against Christ, while they remain such, partake of these holy mysteries,[^fnref:wcf1] or be admitted thereunto.[^fnref:wcf2]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 11:27-29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011027.01-1">Whoever, therefore, eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty concerning the body and blood of the Lord. Let a person examine himself, then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 6:14-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p47006014.07-2">Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. For what partnership has righteousness with lawlessness? Or what fellowship has light with darkness? What accord has Christ with Belial? Or what portion does a believer share with an unbeliever? What agreement has the temple of God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God; as God said,</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p47006016.22-2">&#8220;I will make my dwelling among them and walk among them,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and I will be their God,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and they shall be my people.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 5:6-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46005006.01-1">Your boasting is not good. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump? Cleanse out the old leaven that you may be a new lump, as you really are unleavened. For Christ, our Passover lamb, has been sacrificed.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 5:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46005013.01-2">God judges those outside. &#8220;Purge the evil person from among you.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>2 Thessalonians 3:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p53003006.04-3">Now we command you, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you keep away from any brother who is walking in idleness and not in accord with the tradition that you received from us.</p> </div><h5>2 Thessalonians 3:14-15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p53003014.01-4">If anyone does not obey what we say in this letter, take note of that person, and have nothing to do with him, that he may be ashamed. Do not regard him as an enemy, but warn him as a brother.</p> </div><h5>Matthew 7:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40007006.01-5"><span class="woc">&#8220;Do not give dogs what is holy, and do not throw your pearls before pigs, lest they trample them underfoot and turn to attack you.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

