---
pagetitle: May any who profess the faith, and desire to come to the Lord's Supper, be kept from it?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/12/09/
prev_date: Dec 9
this_url: /westminster-daily/12/10/
short_date: "1210"
this_date: Dec 10
next_url: /westminster-daily/12/11/
next_date: Dec 11
---

#### Larger Catechism

173\. May any who profess the faith, and desire to come to the Lord's Supper, be kept from it?

A. Such as are found to be ignorant or scandalous, notwithstanding their profession of the faith, and desire to come to the Lord's Supper, may and ought to be kept from that sacrament, by the power which Christ hath left in his church,[^fnref:wlc1] until they receive instruction, and manifest their reformation.[^fnref:wlc2]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 11:27-34</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011027.01-1">Whoever, therefore, eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty concerning the body and blood of the Lord. Let a person examine himself, then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself. That is why many of you are weak and ill, and some have died. But if we judged ourselves truly, we would not be judged. But when we are judged by the Lord, we are disciplined so that we may not be condemned along with the world.</p>  <p id="p46011033.01-1">So then, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for one another&#8212; if anyone is hungry, let him eat at home&#8212;so that when you come together it will not be for judgment. About the other things I will give directions when I come.</p> </div><h5>Matthew 7:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40007006.01-2"><span class="woc">&#8220;Do not give dogs what is holy, and do not throw your pearls before pigs, lest they trample them underfoot and turn to attack you.</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 5</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p46005001.06-3"><span class="chapter-num" id="v46005001-3">5:1&nbsp;</span>It is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you, and of a kind that is not tolerated even among pagans, for a man has his father's wife. And you are arrogant! Ought you not rather to mourn? Let him who has done this be removed from among you.</p>  <p id="p46005003.01-3">For though absent in body, I am present in spirit; and as if present, I have already pronounced judgment on the one who did such a thing. When you are assembled in the name of the Lord Jesus and my spirit is present, with the power of our Lord Jesus, you are to deliver this man to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, so that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord.</p>  <p id="p46005006.01-3">Your boasting is not good. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump? Cleanse out the old leaven that you may be a new lump, as you really are unleavened. For Christ, our Passover lamb, has been sacrificed. Let us therefore celebrate the festival, not with the old leaven, the leaven of malice and evil, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.</p>  <p id="p46005009.01-3">I wrote to you in my letter not to associate with sexually immoral people&#8212; not at all meaning the sexually immoral of this world, or the greedy and swindlers, or idolaters, since then you would need to go out of the world. But now I am writing to you not to associate with anyone who bears the name of brother if he is guilty of sexual immorality or greed, or is an idolater, reviler, drunkard, or swindler&#8212;not even to eat with such a one. For what have I to do with judging outsiders? Is it not those inside the church whom you are to judge? God judges those outside. &#8220;Purge the evil person from among you.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Jude 1:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p65001023.01-4">save others by snatching them out of the fire; to others show mercy with fear, hating even the garment stained by the flesh.</p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 5:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54005022.01-5">Do not be hasty in the laying on of hands, nor take part in the sins of others; keep yourself pure.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Corinthians 2:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47002007.01-1">so you should rather turn to forgive and comfort him, or he may be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

