---
pagetitle: What is the duty of Christians, after they have received the Lord's Supper?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/12/11/
prev_date: Dec 11
this_url: /westminster-daily/12/12/
short_date: "1212"
this_date: Dec 12
next_url: /westminster-daily/12/13/
next_date: Dec 13
---

#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">175.</span> What is the duty of Christians, after they have received the sacrament of the Lord's Supper?

<span class="q">A.</span> The duty of Christians, after they have received the sacrament of the Lord's Supper, is seriously to consider how they have behaved themselves therein, and with what success;[^fnref:wlc1] if they find quickening and comfort, to bless God for it,[^fnref:wlc2] beg the continuance of it,[^fnref:wlc3] watch against relapses,[^fnref:wlc4] fulfill their vows,[^fnref:wlc5] and encourage themselves to a frequent attendance on that ordinance:[^fnref:wlc6] but if they find no present benefit, more exactly to review their preparation to, and carriage at, the sacrament;[^fnref:wlc7] in both which, if they can approve themselves to God and their own consciences, they are to wait for the fruit of it in due time:[^fnref:wlc8] but, if they see they have failed in either, they are to be humbled,[^fnref:wlc9] and to attend upon it afterwards with more care and diligence.[^fnref:wlc10]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 28:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19028007.01-1">The <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> is my strength and my shield;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>in him my heart trusts, and I am helped;<br /> my heart exults,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and with my song I give thanks to him.</p> </div> </div><h5>Psalm 85:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19085008.01-2">Let me hear what God the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> will speak,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for he will speak peace to his people, to his saints;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>but let them not turn back to folly.</p> </div> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 11:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p46011017.04-3">But in the following instructions I do not commend you, because when you come together it is not for the better but for the worse.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 11:30-31</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011030.01-4">That is why many of you are weak and ill, and some have died. But if we judged ourselves truly, we would not be judged.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Chronicles 30:21-23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p14030021.01-1">And the people of Israel who were present at Jerusalem kept the Feast of Unleavened Bread seven days with great gladness, and the Levites and the priests praised the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> day by day, singing with all their might to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. And Hezekiah spoke encouragingly to all the Levites who showed good skill in the service of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. So they ate the food of the festival for seven days, sacrificing peace offerings and giving thanks to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, the God of their fathers.</p>  <p id="p14030023.01-1">Then the whole assembly agreed together to keep the feast for another seven days. So they kept it for another seven days with gladness.</p> </div><h5>2 Chronicles 30:25-26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p14030025.01-2">The whole assembly of Judah, and the priests and the Levites, and the whole assembly that came out of Israel, and the sojourners who came out of the land of Israel, and the sojourners who lived in Judah, rejoiced. So there was great joy in Jerusalem, for since the time of Solomon the son of David king of Israel there had been nothing like this in Jerusalem.</p> </div><h5>Acts 2:42</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p44002042.06-3">And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers.</p> </div><h5>Acts 2:46-47</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002046.01-4">And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts, praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 36:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19036010.01-1">Oh, continue your steadfast love to those who know you,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and your righteousness to the upright of heart!</p> </div> </div><h5>Song of Solomon 3:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p22003004.01-2">Scarcely had I passed them<br /> <span class="indent"></span>when I found him whom my soul loves.<br /> I held him, and would not let him go<br /> <span class="indent"></span>until I had brought him into my mother's house,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and into the chamber of her who conceived me.</p> </div> </div><h5>1 Chronicles 29:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p13029018.01-3">O <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, our fathers, keep forever such purposes and thoughts in the hearts of your people, and direct their hearts toward you.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 10:3-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46010003.01-1">and all ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the spiritual Rock that followed them, and the Rock was Christ. Nevertheless, with most of them God was not pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 10:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46010012.01-2">Therefore let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 50:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19050014.01-1">Offer to God a sacrifice of thanksgiving,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and perform your vows to the Most High,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc6]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 11:25-26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011025.01-1">In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.</p> </div><h5>Acts 2:42</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p44002042.06-2">And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers.</p> </div><h5>Acts 2:46</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002046.01-3">And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc7]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ecclesiastes 5:1-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p21005001.03-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v21005001-1">5:1&nbsp;</span> Guard your steps when you go to the house of God. To draw near to listen is better than to offer the sacrifice of fools, for they do not know that they are doing evil.  Be not rash with your mouth, nor let your heart be hasty to utter a word before God, for God is in heaven and you are on earth. Therefore let your words be few. For a dream comes with much business, and a fool's voice with many words.</p>  <p id="p21005004.01-1">When you vow a vow to God, do not delay paying it, for he has no pleasure in fools. Pay what you vow. It is better that you should not vow than that you should vow and not pay. Let not your mouth lead you into sin, and do not say before the messenger that it was a mistake. Why should God be angry at your voice and destroy the work of your hands?</p> </div><h5>Psalm 139:23-24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19139023.01-2">Search me, O God, and know my heart!<br /> <span class="indent"></span>Try me and know my thoughts!<br />  And see if there be any grievous way in me,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and lead me in the way everlasting!  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc8]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 123:1-2</h5> <div class="esv-text">  <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19123001.13-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v19123001-1">123:1&nbsp;</span>To you I lift up my eyes,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>O you who are enthroned in the heavens!<br />  Behold, as the eyes of servants<br /> <span class="indent"></span>look to the hand of their master,<br /> as the eyes of a maidservant<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to the hand of her mistress,<br /> so our eyes look to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> our God,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>till he has mercy upon us.</p> </div> </div><h5>Psalm 42:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19042005.01-2">Why are you cast down, O my soul,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and why are you in turmoil within me?<br /> Hope in God; for I shall again praise him,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>my salvation</p> </div> </div><h5>Psalm 42:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19042008.01-3">By day the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> commands his steadfast love,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and at night his song is with me,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>a prayer to the God of my life.</p> </div> </div><h5>Psalm 43:3-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19043003.01-4">Send out your light and your truth;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>let them lead me;<br /> let them bring me to your holy hill<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and to your dwelling!<br />  Then I will go to the altar of God,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to God my exceeding joy,<br /> and I will praise you with the lyre,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>O God, my God.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p19043005.01-4">Why are you cast down, O my soul,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and why are you in turmoil within me?<br /> Hope in God; for I shall again praise him,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>my salvation and my God.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc9]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Chronicles 30:18-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p14030018.01-1">For a majority of the people, many of them from Ephraim, Manasseh, Issachar, and Zebulun, had not cleansed themselves, yet they ate the Passover otherwise than as prescribed. For Hezekiah had prayed for them, saying, &#8220;May the good <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> pardon everyone who sets his heart to seek God, the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, the God of his fathers, even though not according to the sanctuary's rules of cleanness.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc10]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Corinthians 7:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47007011.01-1">For see what earnestness this godly grief has produced in you, but also what eagerness to clear yourselves, what indignation, what fear, what longing, what zeal, what punishment! At every point you have proved yourselves innocent in the matter.</p> </div><h5>1 Chronicles 15:12-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p13015012.01-2">and said to them, &#8220;You are the heads of the fathers' houses of the Levites. Consecrate yourselves, you and your brothers, so that you may bring up the ark of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, the God of Israel, to the place that I have prepared for it. Because you did not carry it the first time, the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> our God broke out against us, because we did not seek him according to the rule.&#8221; So the priests and the Levites consecrated themselves to bring up the ark of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, the God of Israel.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

