---
pagetitle: Of church censures, part 1
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/12/14/
prev_date: Dec 14
this_url: /westminster-daily/12/15/
this_date: Dec 15
next_url: /westminster-daily/12/16/
next_date: Dec 16
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 30: Of Church Censures

1\. The Lord Jesus, as King and Head of his church, hath therein appointed a government, in the hand of church officers, distinct from the civil magistrate.[^fnref:wcf1]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Isaiah 9:6-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23009006.01-1">For to us a child is born,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to us a son is given;<br /> and the government shall be upon his shoulder,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and his name shall be called<br /> Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.<br />  Of the increase of his government and of peace<br /> <span class="indent"></span>there will be no end,<br /> on the throne of David and over his kingdom,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to establish it and to uphold it<br /> with justice and with righteousness<br /> <span class="indent"></span>from this time forth and forevermore.<br /> The zeal of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> of hosts will do this.</p> </div> </div><h5>1 Timothy 5:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54005017.01-2">Let the elders who rule well be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in preaching and teaching.</p> </div><h5>1 Thessalonians 5:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p52005012.05-3">We ask you, brothers, to respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you,</p> </div><h5>Acts 20:17-18</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p44020017.07-4">Now from Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the church to come to him. And when they came to him, he said to them:</p> <p id="p44020018.11-4">&#8220;You yourselves know how I lived among you the whole time from the first day that I set foot in Asia,</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 13:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58013007.01-5">Remember your leaders, those who spoke to you the word of God. Consider the outcome of their way of life, and imitate their faith.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 13:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58013017.01-6">Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they are keeping watch over your souls, as those who will have to give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with groaning, for that would be of no advantage to you.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 13:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58013024.01-7">Greet all your leaders and all the saints. Those who come from Italy send you greetings.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 12:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46012028.01-8">And God has appointed in the church first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healing, helping, administrating, and various kinds of tongues.</p> </div><h5>Matthew 28:18-20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40028018.01-9">And Jesus came and said to them, <span class="woc">&#8220;All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me.</span> <span class="woc">Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,</span> <span class="woc">teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

