---
pagetitle: Of the state of men after death, and of the resurrection of the dead, part 1
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/12/23/
prev_date: Dec 23
this_url: /westminster-daily/12/24/
this_date: Dec 24
next_url: /westminster-daily/12/25/
next_date: Dec 25
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 32: Of the State of Men after Death, and of the Resurrection of the Dead

1\. The bodies of men, after death, return to dust, and see corruption:[^fnref:wcf1] but their souls, which neither die nor sleep, having an immortal subsistence, immediately return to God who gave them:[^fnref:wcf2] the souls of the righteous, being then made perfect in holiness, are received into the highest heavens, where they behold the face of God, in light and glory, waiting for the full redemption of their bodies.[^fnref:wcf3] And the souls of the wicked are cast into hell, where they remain in torments and utter darkness, reserved to the judgment of the great day.[^fnref:wcf4] Besides these two places, for souls separated from their bodies, the Scripture acknowledgeth none.

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 3:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p01003019.01-1">By the sweat of your face<br /> <span class="indent"></span>you shall eat bread,<br /> till you return to the ground,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for out of it you were taken;<br /> for you are dust,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and to dust you shall return.&#8221;</p> </div> </div><h5>Acts 13:36</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p44013036.01-2">For David, after he had served the purpose of God in his own generation, fell asleep and was laid with his fathers and saw corruption,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Luke 23:43</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42023043.01-1">And he said to him, <span class="woc">&#8220;Truly, I say to you, today you will be with me in Paradise.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Ecclesiastes 12:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p21012007.01-2">and the dust returns to the earth as it was, and the spirit returns to God who gave it.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 12:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58012023.01-1">and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect,</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 5:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p47005001.04-2"><span class="chapter-num" id="v47005001-2">5:1&nbsp;</span>For we know that if the tent that is our earthly home is destroyed, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 5:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47005006.01-3">So we are always of good courage. We know that while we are at home in the body we are away from the Lord,</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 5:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47005008.01-4">Yes, we are of good courage, and we would rather be away from the body and at home with the Lord.</p> </div><h5>Philippians 1:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50001023.01-5">I am hard pressed between the two. My desire is to depart and be with Christ, for that is far better.</p> </div><h5>Acts 3:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44003021.01-6">whom heaven must receive until the time for restoring all the things about which God spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets long ago.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 4:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49004010.01-7">He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things.)  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Luke 16:23-24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42016023.01-1"><span class="woc">and in Hades, being in torment, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham far off and Lazarus at his side.</span> <span class="woc">And he called out, &#8216;Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus to dip the end of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am in anguish in this flame.&#8217;</span></p> </div><h5>Acts 1:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44001025.01-2">to take the place in this ministry and apostleship from which Judas turned aside to go to his own place.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Jude 1:6-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p65001006.01-3">And the angels who did not stay within their own position of authority, but left their proper dwelling, he has kept in eternal chains under gloomy darkness until the judgment of the great day&#8212; just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities, which likewise indulged in sexual immorality and pursued unnatural desire, serve as an example by undergoing a punishment of eternal fire.</p> </div><h5>1 Peter 3:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60003019.01-4">in which he went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

