---
pagetitle: What are we to believe concerning the resurrection?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/12/25/
prev_date: Dec 25
this_url: /westminster-daily/12/26/
this_date: Dec 26
next_url: /westminster-daily/12/27/
next_date: Dec 27
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 32: Of the State of Men after Death, and of the Resurrection of the Dead

2\. At the last day, such as are found alive shall not die, but be changed:[^fnref:wcf1] and all the dead shall be raised up, with the selfsame bodies, and none other (although with different qualities), which shall be united again to their souls forever.[^fnref:wcf2]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Thessalonians 4:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p52004017.01-1">Then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 15:51-52</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46015051.01-2">Behold! I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Job 19:26-27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p18019026.01-1">And after my skin has been thus destroyed,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>yet in my flesh I shall see God,<br />  whom I shall see for myself,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and my eyes shall behold, and not another.<br /> <span class="indent"></span>My heart faints within me!</p> </div> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 15:42-44</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46015042.01-2">So is it with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown is perishable; what is raised is imperishable. It is sown in dishonor; it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness; it is raised in power. It is sown a natural body; it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

87\. What are we to believe concerning the resurrection?

A. We are to believe, that at the last day there shall be a general resurrection of the dead, both of the just and unjust:[^fnref:wlc1] when they that are then found alive shall in a moment be changed; and the selfsame bodies of the dead which were laid in the grave, being then again united to their souls forever, shall be raised up by the power of Christ.[^fnref:wlc2] The bodies of the just, by the Spirit of Christ, and by virtue of his resurrection as their head, shall be raised in power, spiritual, incorruptible, and made like to his glorious body;[^fnref:wlc3] and the bodies of the wicked shall be raised up in dishonor by him, as an offended judge.[^fnref:wlc4]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Daniel 12:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p27012002.01-1">And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt.</p> </div><h5>Acts 24:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44024015.01-2">having a hope in God, which these men themselves accept, that there will be a resurrection of both the just and the unjust.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Job 19:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p18019026.01-1">And after my skin has been thus destroyed,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>yet in my flesh I shall see God,</p> </div> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 15:51-53</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46015051.01-2">Behold! I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed. For this perishable body must put on the imperishable, and this mortal body must put on immortality.</p> </div><h5>1 Thessalonians 4:15-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p52004015.01-3">For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord, that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound of the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord.</p> </div><h5>John 5:28-29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43005028.01-4"><span class="woc">Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice</span> <span class="woc">and come out, those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment.</span></p> </div><h5>Romans 8:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008011.01-5">If the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 15:21-23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46015021.01-1">For as by a man came death, by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive. But each in his own order: Christ the firstfruits, then at his coming those who belong to Christ.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 15:42-44</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46015042.01-2">So is it with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown is perishable; what is raised is imperishable. It is sown in dishonor; it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness; it is raised in power. It is sown a natural body; it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body.</p> </div><h5>Philippians 3:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50003021.01-3">who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body, by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 5:27-29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43005027.01-1"><span class="woc">And he has given him authority to execute judgment, because he is the Son of Man.</span> <span class="woc">Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice</span> <span class="woc">and come out, those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment.</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 25:33</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40025033.01-2"><span class="woc">And he will place the sheep on his right, but the goats on the left.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

