---
pagetitle: What shall immediately follow after the resurrection?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/12/27/
prev_date: Dec 27
this_url: /westminster-daily/12/28/
this_date: Dec 28
next_url: /westminster-daily/12/29/
next_date: Dec 29
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 33: Of the Last Judgment

1\. God hath appointed a day, wherein he will judge the world, in righteousness, by Jesus Christ,[^fnref:wcf1] to whom all power and judgment is given of the Father.[^fnref:wcf2] In which day, not only the apostate angels shall be judged,[^fnref:wcf3] but likewise all persons that have lived upon earth shall appear before the tribunal of Christ, to give an account of their thoughts, words, and deeds; and to receive according to what they have done in the body, whether good or evil.[^fnref:wcf4]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 17:31</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44017031.01-1">because he has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed; and of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 5:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43005022.01-1"><span class="woc">The Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son,</span></p> </div><h5>John 5:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43005027.01-2"><span class="woc">And he has given him authority to execute judgment, because he is the Son of Man.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 6:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46006003.01-1">Do you not know that we are to judge angels? How much more, then, matters pertaining to this life!</p> </div><h5>Jude 1:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p65001006.01-2">And the angels who did not stay within their own position of authority, but left their proper dwelling, he has kept in eternal chains under gloomy darkness until the judgment of the great day&#8212;</p> </div><h5>2 Peter 2:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p61002004.01-3">For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but cast them into hell and committed them to chains of gloomy darkness to be kept until the judgment;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Corinthians 5:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47005010.01-1">For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in the body, whether good or evil.</p> </div><h5>Ecclesiastes 12:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p21012014.01-2">For God will bring every deed into judgment, with every secret thing, whether good or evil.</p> </div><h5>Romans 2:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45002016.01-3">on that day when, according to my gospel, God judges the secrets of men by Christ Jesus.</p> </div><h5>Romans 14:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45014010.01-4">Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or you, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God;</p> </div><h5>Romans 14:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p45014012.01-5">So then each of us will give an account of himself to God.</p> </div><h5>Matthew 12:36-37</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40012036.01-6"><span class="woc">I tell you, on the day of judgment people will give account for every careless word they speak,</span> <span class="woc">for by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

88\. What shall immediately follow after the resurrection?

A. Immediately after the resurrection shall follow the general and final judgment of angels and men;[^fnref:wlc1] the day and hour whereof no man knoweth, that all may watch and pray, and be ever ready for the coming of the Lord.[^fnref:wlc2]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ecclesiastes 12:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p21012014.01-1">For God will bring every deed into judgment, with every secret thing, whether good or evil.</p> </div><h5>2 Peter 2:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p61002004.01-2">For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but cast them into hell and committed them to chains of gloomy darkness to be kept until the judgment;</p> </div><h5>2 Peter 2:6-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p61002006.01-3">if by turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to ashes he condemned them to extinction, making them an example of what is going to happen to the ungodly; and if he rescued righteous Lot, greatly distressed by the sensual conduct of the wicked</p> </div><h5>2 Peter 2:14-15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p61002014.01-4">They have eyes full of adultery, insatiable for sin. They entice unsteady souls. They have hearts trained in greed. Accursed children! Forsaking the right way, they have gone astray. They have followed the way of Balaam, the son of Beor, who loved gain from wrongdoing,</p> </div><h5>Matthew 25:46</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40025046.01-5"><span class="woc">And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 5:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47005010.01-6">For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in the body, whether good or evil.</p> </div><h5>Romans 14:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45014010.01-7">Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or you, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God;</p> </div><h5>Romans 14:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p45014012.01-8">So then each of us will give an account of himself to God.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 24:36</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40024036.08-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;But concerning that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father only.</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 24:42</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40024042.01-2"><span class="woc">Therefore, stay awake, for you do not know on what day your Lord is coming.</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 24:44</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40024044.01-3"><span class="woc">Therefore you also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect.</span></p> </div><h5>Mark 13:35-37</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p41013035.01-4"><span class="woc">Therefore stay awake&#8212;for you do not know when the master of the house will come, in the evening, or at midnight, or when the rooster crows, or in the morning&#8212;</span> <span class="woc">lest he come suddenly and find you asleep.</span> <span class="woc">And what I say to you I say to all: Stay awake.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

