---
pagetitle: What shall be done to the wicked at the day of judgment?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/12/28/
prev_date: Dec 28
this_url: /westminster-daily/12/29/
short_date: "1229"
this_date: Dec 29
next_url: /westminster-daily/12/30/
next_date: Dec 30
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 33: Of the Last Judgment

The end of God's appointing this day is for the manifestation of the glory of his mercy, in the eternal salvation of the elect; and of his justice, in the damnation of the reprobate, who are wicked and disobedient. For then shall the righteous go into everlasting life, and receive that fullness of joy and refreshing, which shall come from the presence of the Lord; but the wicked who know not God, and obey not the gospel of Jesus Christ, shall be cast into eternal torments, and be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord, and from the glory of his power.[^fnref:wcf1]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 25:31-46</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40025031.04-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne.</span> <span class="woc">Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.</span> <span class="woc">And he will place the sheep on his right, but the goats on the left.</span> <span class="woc">Then the King will say to those on his right, &#8216;Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.</span> <span class="woc">For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me drink, I was a stranger and you welcomed me,</span> <span class="woc">I was naked and you clothed me, I was sick and you visited me, I was in prison and you came to me.&#8217;</span> <span class="woc">Then the righteous will answer him, saying, &#8216;Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you drink?</span> <span class="woc">And when did we see you a stranger and welcome you, or naked and clothe you?</span> <span class="woc">And when did we see you sick or in prison and visit you?&#8217;</span> <span class="woc">And the King will answer them, &#8216;Truly, I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me.&#8217;</span></p>  <p id="p40025041.01-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;Then he will say to those on his left, &#8216;Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels.</span> <span class="woc">For I was hungry and you gave me no food, I was thirsty and you gave me no drink,</span> <span class="woc">I was a stranger and you did not welcome me, naked and you did not clothe me, sick and in prison and you did not visit me.&#8217;</span> <span class="woc">Then they also will answer, saying, &#8216;Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison, and did not minister to you?&#8217;</span> <span class="woc">Then he will answer them, saying, &#8216;Truly, I say to you, as you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to me.&#8217;</span> <span class="woc">And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Romans 2:5-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45002005.01-2">But because of your hard and impenitent heart you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous judgment will be revealed.</p>  <p id="p45002006.01-2">He will render to each one according to his works:</p> </div><h5>Romans 9:22-23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45009022.01-3">What if God, desiring to show his wrath and to make known his power, has endured with much patience vessels of wrath prepared for destruction, in order to make known the riches of his glory for vessels of mercy, which he has prepared beforehand for glory&#8212;</p> </div><h5>Matthew 25:21</h5> <h5>Acts 3:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44003019.01-5">Repent therefore, and turn again, that your sins may be blotted out,</p> </div><h5>2 Thessalonians 1:7-10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p53001007.01-6">and to grant relief to you who are afflicted as well as to us, when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. They will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction, away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might, when he comes on that day to be glorified in his saints, and to be marveled at among all who have believed, because our testimony to you was believed. <h5>Mark 9:48</h5>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">Q 89.</span> What shall be done to the wicked at the day of judgment?

<span class="q">A.</span> At the day of judgment, the wicked shall be set on Christ's left hand,[^fnref:wlc1] and, upon clear evidence, and full conviction of their own consciences,[^fnref:wlc2] shall have the fearful but just sentence of condemnation pronounced against them;[^fnref:wlc3] and thereupon shall be cast out from the favorable presence of God, and the glorious fellowship with Christ, his saints, and all his holy angels, into hell, to be punished with unspeakable torments, both of body and soul, with the devil and his angels forever.[^fnref:wlc4]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 25:33</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40025033.01-1"><span class="woc">And he will place the sheep on his right, but the goats on the left.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 2:15-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45002015.01-1">They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse them on that day when, according to my gospel, God judges the secrets of men by Christ Jesus.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 25:41-43</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40025041.01-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;Then he will say to those on his left, &#8216;Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels.</span> <span class="woc">For I was hungry and you gave me no food, I was thirsty and you gave me no drink,</span> <span class="woc">I was a stranger and you did not welcome me, naked and you did not clothe me, sick and in prison and you did not visit me.&#8217;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Luke 16:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42016026.01-1"><span class="woc">And besides all this, between us and you a great chasm has been fixed, in order that those who would pass from here to you may not be able, and none may cross from there to us.&#8217;</span></p> </div><h5>2 Thessalonians 1:8-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p53001008.01-2">in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. They will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction, away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

