---
pagetitle: Of the last judgment, part 3
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/12/30/
prev_date: Dec 30
this_url: /westminster-daily/12/31/
this_date: Dec 31
next_url: /westminster-daily/01/01/
next_date: Jan 1
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 33: Of the Last Judgment

3\. As Christ would have us to be certainly persuaded that there shall be a day of judgment, both to deter all men from sin; and for the greater consolation of the godly in their adversity:[^fnref:wcf1] so will he have that day unknown to men, that they may shake off all carnal security, and be always watchful, because they know not at what hour the Lord will come; and may be ever prepared to say, Come Lord Jesus, come quickly, Amen.[^fnref:wcf2]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Peter 3:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p61003011.01-1">Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness,</p> </div><h5>2 Peter 3:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p61003014.03-2">Therefore, beloved, since you are waiting for these, be diligent to be found by him without spot or blemish, and at peace.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 5:10-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47005010.01-3">For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in the body, whether good or evil.</p>   <p id="p47005011.05-3">Therefore, knowing the fear of the Lord, we persuade others. But what we are is known to God, and I hope it is known also to your conscience.</p> </div><h5>2 Thessalonians 1:5-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p53001005.06-4">This is evidence of the righteous judgment of God, that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of God, for which you are also suffering&#8212; since indeed God considers it just to repay with affliction those who afflict you, and to grant relief to you who are afflicted as well as to us, when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels</p> </div><h5>Luke 21:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42021007.01-5">And they asked him, &#8220;Teacher, when will these things be, and what will be the sign when these things are about to take place?&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Luke 21:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42021028.01-6"><span class="woc">Now when these things begin to take place, straighten up and raise your heads, because your redemption is drawing near.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Romans 8:23-25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008023.01-7">And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. Now hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 24:36</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40024036.08-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;But concerning that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father only.</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 24:42-44</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40024042.01-2"><span class="woc">Therefore, stay awake, for you do not know on what day your Lord is coming.</span> <span class="woc">But know this, that if the master of the house had known in what part of the night the thief was coming, he would have stayed awake and would not have let his house be broken into.</span> <span class="woc">Therefore you also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect.</span></p> </div><h5>Mark 13:35-37</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p41013035.01-3"><span class="woc">Therefore stay awake&#8212;for you do not know when the master of the house will come, in the evening, or at midnight, or when the rooster crows, or in the morning&#8212;</span> <span class="woc">lest he come suddenly and find you asleep.</span> <span class="woc">And what I say to you I say to all: Stay awake.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Luke 12:35-36</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p42012035.05-4"><span class="woc">&#8220;Stay dressed for action and keep your lamps burning,</span> <span class="woc">and be like men who are waiting for their master to come home from the wedding feast, so that they may open the door to him at once when he comes and knocks.</span></p> </div><h5>Revelation 22:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66022020.01-5">He who testifies to these things says, <span class="woc">&#8220;Surely I am coming soon.&#8221;</span> Amen. Come, Lord Jesus!  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

