---
pagetitle: What are the outward means whereby Christ communicates the benefits of his mediation?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/11/03/
prev_date: Nov 3
this_url: /westminster-daily/11/04/
short_date: "1104"
this_date: Nov 4
next_url: /westminster-daily/11/05/
next_date: Nov 5
---

#### Shorter Catechism

<span class="q">Q 88.</span> What are the outward and ordinary means whereby Christ communicateth to us the benefits of redemption?

<span class="q">A.</span> The outward and ordinary means whereby Christ communicateth to us the benefits of redemption are, his ordinances, especially the Word, sacraments, and prayer; all which are made effectual to the elect for salvation.[^fnref:wsc1]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 28:18-20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40028018.01-1">And Jesus came and said to them, <span class="woc">&#8220;All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me.</span> <span class="woc">Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,</span> <span class="woc">teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Acts 2:41-42</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002041.01-2">So those who received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about three thousand souls.</p>   <p id="p44002042.06-2">And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">Q 154.</span> What are the outward means whereby Christ communicates to us the benefits of his mediation?

<span class="q">A.</span> The outward and ordinary means whereby Christ communicates to his church the benefits of his mediation, are all his ordinances; especially the Word, sacraments, and prayer; all which are made effectual to the elect for their salvation.[^fnref:wlc1]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 28:19-20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40028019.01-1"><span class="woc">Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,</span> <span class="woc">teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Acts 2:42</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p44002042.06-2">And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers.</p> </div><h5>Acts 2:46-47</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002046.01-3">And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts, praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

