---
pagetitle: How is the Word made effectual to salvation?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/11/04/
prev_date: Nov 4
this_url: /westminster-daily/11/05/
short_date: 1105
this_date: Nov 5
next_url: /westminster-daily/11/06/
next_date: Nov 6
---

#### Shorter Catechism

89\. How is the word made effectual to salvation?

A. The Spirit of God maketh the reading, but especially the preaching, of the Word, an effectual means of convincing and converting sinners, and of building them up in holiness and comfort, through faith, unto salvation.[^fnref:wsc1]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Nehemiah 8:8-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p16008008.01-1">They read from the book, from the Law of God, clearly, and they gave the sense, so that the people understood the reading.</p>   <p id="p16008009.05-1">And Nehemiah, who was the governor, and Ezra the priest and scribe, and the Levites who taught the people said to all the people, &#8220;This day is holy to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God; do not mourn or weep.&#8221; For all the people wept as they heard the words of the Law.</p> </div><h5>Acts 20:32</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44020032.01-2">And now I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified.</p> </div><h5>Romans 10:14-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45010014.01-3">How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it is written, &#8220;How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news!&#8221; But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, &#8220;Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us?&#8221; So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ.</p> </div><h5>2 Timothy 3:15-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p55003015.01-4">and how from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be competent, equipped for every good work.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

155\. How is the Word made effectual to salvation?

A. The Spirit of God maketh the reading, but especially the preaching of the Word, an effectual means of enlightening,[^fnref:wlc1] convincing, and humbling sinners;[^fnref:wlc2] of driving them out of themselves, and drawing them unto Christ;[^fnref:wlc3] of conforming them to his image,[^fnref:wlc4] and subduing them to his will;[^fnref:wlc5] of strengthening them against temptations and corruptions;[^fnref:wlc6] of building them up in grace,[^fnref:wlc7] and establishing their hearts in holiness and comfort through faith unto salvation.[^fnref:wlc8]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Nehemiah 8:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p16008008.01-1">They read from the book, from the Law of God, clearly, and they gave the sense, so that the people understood the reading.</p> </div><h5>Acts 26:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44026018.01-2"><span class="woc">to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me.&#8217;</span></p> </div><h5>Psalm 19:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19019008.01-3">the precepts of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> are right,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>rejoicing the heart;<br /> the commandment of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> is pure,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>enlightening the eyes;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 14:24-25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46014024.01-1">But if all prophesy, and an unbeliever or outsider enters, he is convicted by all, he is called to account by all, the secrets of his heart are disclosed, and so, falling on his face, he will worship God and declare that God is really among you.</p> </div><h5>2 Chronicles 34:18-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p14034018.01-2">Then Shaphan the secretary told the king, &#8220;Hilkiah the priest has given me a book.&#8221; And Shaphan read from it before the king.</p>  <p id="p14034019.01-2">And when the king heard the words of the Law, he tore his clothes.</p> </div><h5>2 Chronicles 34:26-28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p14034026.01-3">But to the king of Judah, who sent you to inquire of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, thus shall you say to him, Thus says the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, the God of Israel: Regarding the words that you have heard, because your heart was tender and you humbled yourself before God when you heard his words against this place and its inhabitants, and you have humbled yourself before me and have torn your clothes and wept before me, I also have heard you, declares the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. Behold, I will gather you to your fathers, and you shall be gathered to your grave in peace, and your eyes shall not see all the disaster that I will bring upon this place and its inhabitants.&#8217;&#8221; And they brought back word to the king.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 2:37</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002037.01-1">Now when they heard this they were cut to the heart, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, &#8220;Brothers, what shall we do?&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Acts 2:41</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002041.01-2">So those who received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about three thousand souls.</p> </div><h5>Acts 8:27-38</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44008027.01-3">And he rose and went. And there was an Ethiopian, a eunuch, a court official of Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, who was in charge of all her treasure. He had come to Jerusalem to worship and was returning, seated in his chariot, and he was reading the prophet Isaiah. And the Spirit said to Philip, &#8220;Go over and join this chariot.&#8221; So Philip ran to him and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet and asked, &#8220;Do you understand what you are reading?&#8221; And he said, &#8220;How can I, unless someone guides me?&#8221; And he invited Philip to come up and sit with him. Now the passage of the Scripture that he was reading was this:</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p44008032.13-3">&#8220;Like a sheep he was led to the slaughter<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and like a lamb before its shearer is silent,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>so he opens not his mouth.<br />  In his humiliation justice was denied him.<br /> <span class="indent"></span>Who can describe his generation?<br /> For his life is taken away from the earth.&#8221;</p> </div>  <p class="same-paragraph" id="p44008034.01-3">And the eunuch said to Philip, &#8220;About whom, I ask you, does the prophet say this, about himself or about someone else?&#8221; Then Philip opened his mouth, and beginning with this Scripture he told him the good news about Jesus. And as they were going along the road they came to some water, and the eunuch said, &#8220;See, here is water! What prevents me from being baptized?&#8221; And he commanded the chariot to stop, and they both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Corinthians 3:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47003018.01-1">And we all, with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit.</p> </div><h5>Colossians 1:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51001027.01-2">To them God chose to make known how great among the Gentiles are the riches of the glory of this mystery, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Corinthians 10:4-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47010004.01-1">For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh but have divine power to destroy strongholds. We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God, and take every thought captive to obey Christ, being ready to punish every disobedience, when your obedience is complete.</p> </div><h5>Romans 6:17-18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006017.01-2">But thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed, and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc6]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 6:16-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49006016.01-1">In all circumstances take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one; and take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God,</p> </div><h5>Colossians 1:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51001028.01-2">Him we proclaim, warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom, that we may present everyone mature in Christ.</p> </div><h5>Psalm 19:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19019011.01-3">Moreover, by them is your servant warned;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>in keeping them there is great reward.</p> </div> </div><h5>Matthew 4:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40004004.01-4">But he answered, <span class="woc">&#8220;It is written,</span></p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p40004004.07-4"><span class="woc">&#8220;&#8216;Man shall not live by bread alone,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>but by every word that comes from the mouth of God.&#8217;&#8221;</span></p> </div> </div><h5>Matthew 4:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p40004007.01-5">Jesus said to him, <span class="woc">&#8220;Again it is written, &#8216;You shall not put the Lord your God to the test.&#8217;&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 4:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40004010.01-6">Then Jesus said to him, <span class="woc">&#8220;Be gone, Satan! For it is written,</span></p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p40004010.13-6"><span class="woc">&#8220;&#8216;You shall worship the Lord your God<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and him only shall you serve.&#8217;&#8221;</span></p> </div> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 10:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46010011.01-7">Now these things happened to them as an example, but they were written down for our instruction, on whom the end of the ages has come.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc7]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 4:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49004011.01-1">And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds and teachers, to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ,</p> </div><h5>Acts 20:32</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44020032.01-2">And now I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified.</p> </div><h5>2 Timothy 3:15-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p55003015.01-3">and how from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be competent, equipped for every good work.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc8]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 16:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45016025.02-1">Now to him who is able to strengthen you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery that was kept secret for long ages</p> </div><h5>1 Thessalonians 3:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p52003002.01-2">and we sent Timothy, our brother and God's coworker in the gospel of Christ, to establish and exhort you in your faith,</p> </div><h5>1 Thessalonians 3:10-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p52003010.01-3">as we pray most earnestly night and day that we may see you face to face and supply what is lacking in your faith?</p>  <p id="p52003011.01-3">Now may our God and Father himself, and our Lord Jesus, direct our way to you,</p> </div><h5>1 Thessalonians 3:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p52003013.01-4">so that he may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his saints.</p> </div><h5>Romans 15:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45015004.01-5">For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope.</p> </div><h5>Romans 10:13-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45010013.01-6">For &#8220;everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.&#8221;</p>  <p id="p45010014.01-6">How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it is written, &#8220;How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news!&#8221; But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, &#8220;Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us?&#8221; So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ.</p> </div><h5>Romans 1:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45001016.07-7">For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

