---
pagetitle: Is the Word of God to be read by all?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/11/05/
prev_date: Nov 5
this_url: /westminster-daily/11/06/
this_date: Nov 6
next_url: /westminster-daily/11/07/
next_date: Nov 7
---

#### Larger Catechism

156. Is the Word of God to be read by all?

A. Although all are not to be permitted to read the Word publicly to the congregation,[^fnref:wlc1] yet all sorts of people are bound to read it apart by themselves,[^fnref:wlc2] and with their families:[^fnref:wlc3] to which end, the Holy Scriptures are to be translated out of the original into vulgar languages.[^fnref:wlc4]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 31:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p05031009.06-1">Then Moses wrote this law and gave it to the priests, the sons of Levi, who carried the ark of the covenant of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, and to all the elders of Israel.</p> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 31:11-13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05031011.01-2">when all Israel comes to appear before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God at the place that he will choose, you shall read this law before all Israel in their hearing. Assemble the people, men, women, and little ones, and the sojourner within your towns, that they may hear and learn to fear the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God, and be careful to do all the words of this law, and that their children, who have not known it, may hear and learn to fear the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God, as long as you live in the land that you are going over the Jordan to possess.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Nehemiah 8:2-3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p16008002.01-3">So Ezra the priest brought the Law before the assembly, both men and women and all who could understand what they heard, on the first day of the seventh month. And he read from it facing the square before the Water Gate from early morning until midday, in the presence of the men and the women and those who could understand. And the ears of all the people were attentive to the Book of the Law.</p> </div><h5>Nehemiah 9:3-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p16009003.01-4">And they stood up in their place and read from the Book of the Law of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> their God for a quarter of the day; for another quarter of it they made confession and worshiped the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> their God. On the stairs of the Levites stood Jeshua, Bani, Kadmiel, Shebaniah, Bunni, Sherebiah, Bani, and Chenani; and they cried with a loud voice to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> their God. Then the Levites, Jeshua, Kadmiel, Bani, Hashabneiah, Sherebiah, Hodiah, Shebaniah, and Pethahiah, said, &#8220;Stand up and bless the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God from everlasting to everlasting. Blessed be your glorious name, which is exalted above all blessing and praise.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 17:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05017019.01-1">And it shall be with him, and he shall read in it all the days of his life, that he may learn to fear the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> his God by keeping all the words of this law and these statutes, and doing them,</p> </div><h5>Revelation 1:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66001003.01-2">Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear, and who keep what is written in it, for the time is near.</p> </div><h5>John 5:39</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43005039.01-3"><span class="woc">You search the Scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life; and it is they that bear witness about me,</span></p> </div><h5>Isaiah 34:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23034016.01-4">Seek and read from the book of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>:<br /> <span class="indent"></span>Not one of these shall be missing;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>none shall be without her mate.<br /> For the mouth of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> has commanded,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and his Spirit has gathered them.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 6:6-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05006006.01-1">And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise. You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates.</p> </div><h5>Genesis 18:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01018017.01-2">The <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> said, &#8220;Shall I hide from Abraham what I am about to do,</p> </div><h5>Genesis 18:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01018019.01-3">For I have chosen him, that he may command his children and his household after him to keep the way of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> by doing righteousness and justice, so that the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> may bring to Abraham what he has promised him.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Psalm 78:5-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19078005.01-4">He established a testimony in Jacob<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and appointed a law in Israel,<br /> which he commanded our fathers<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to teach to their children,<br />  that the next generation might know them,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>the children yet unborn,<br /> and arise and tell them to their children,<br />  <span class="indent"></span>so that they should set their hope in God<br /> and not forget the works of God,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>but keep his commandments;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 14:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46014006.01-1">Now, brothers, if I come to you speaking in tongues, how will I benefit you unless I bring you some revelation or knowledge or prophecy or teaching?</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 14:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46014009.01-2">So with yourselves, if with your tongue you utter speech that is not intelligible, how will anyone know what is said? For you will be speaking into the air.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 14:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46014011.01-3">but if I do not know the meaning of the language, I will be a foreigner to the speaker and the speaker a foreigner to me. So with yourselves, since you are eager for manifestations of the Spirit, strive to excel in building up the church.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 14:15-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46014015.01-4">What am I to do? I will pray with my spirit, but I will pray with my mind also; I will sing praise with my spirit, but I will sing with my mind also. Otherwise, if you give thanks with your spirit, how can anyone in the position of an outsider say &#8220;Amen&#8221; to your thanksgiving when he does not know what you are saying?</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 14:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46014024.01-5">But if all prophesy, and an unbeliever or outsider enters, he is convicted by all, he is called to account by all,</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 14:27-28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46014027.01-6">If any speak in a tongue, let there be only two or at most three, and each in turn, and let someone interpret. But if there is no one to interpret, let each of them keep silent in church and speak to himself and to God.</p> </div><h5>Nehemiah 8:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p16008008.01-7">They read from the book, from the Law of God, clearly, and they gave the sense, so that the people understood the reading.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

