---
pagetitle: By whom is the Word of God to be preached?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/11/07/
prev_date: Nov 7
this_url: /westminster-daily/11/08/
short_date: "1108"
this_date: Nov 8
next_url: /westminster-daily/11/09/
next_date: Nov 9
---

#### Larger Catechism

158\. By whom is the Word of God to be preached?

A. The Word of God is to be preached only by such as are sufficiently gifted,[^fnref:wlc1] and also duly approved and called to that office.[^fnref:wlc2]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Timothy 3:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54003002.01-1">Therefore an overseer must be above reproach, the husband of one wife, sober-minded, self-controlled, respectable, hospitable, able to teach,</p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 3:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54003006.01-2">He must not be a recent convert, or he may become puffed up with conceit and fall into the condemnation of the devil.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 4:8-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49004008.01-3">Therefore it says,</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p49004008.04-3">&#8220;When he ascended on high he led a host of captives,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and he gave gifts to men.&#8221;</p> </div>  <p class="same-paragraph" id="p49004009.01-3">(In saying, &#8220;He ascended,&#8221; what does it mean but that he had also descended into the lower regions, the earth? He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things.) And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds and teachers,</p> </div><h5>Malachi 2:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p39002007.01-4">For the lips of a priest should guard knowledge, and people should seek instruction from his mouth, for he is the messenger of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> of hosts.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 3:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47003006.01-5">who has made us competent to be ministers of a new covenant, not of the letter but of the Spirit. For the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life.</p> </div><h5>2 Timothy 2:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p55002002.01-6">and what you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses entrust to faithful men who will be able to teach others also.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Jeremiah 14:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p24014015.01-1">Therefore thus says the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> concerning the prophets who prophesy in my name although I did not send them, and who say, &#8216;Sword and famine shall not come upon this land&#8217;: By sword and famine those prophets shall be consumed.</p> </div><h5>Romans 10:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45010015.01-2">And how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it is written, &#8220;How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news!&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 5:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58005004.01-3">And no one takes this honor for himself, but only when called by God, just as Aaron was.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 12:28-29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46012028.01-4">And God has appointed in the church first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healing, helping, administrating, and various kinds of tongues. Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Do all work miracles?</p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 3:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54003010.01-5">And let them also be tested first; then let them serve as deacons if they prove themselves blameless.</p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 4:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54004014.01-6">Do not neglect the gift you have, which was given you by prophecy when the council of elders laid their hands on you.</p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 5:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54005022.01-7">Do not be hasty in the laying on of hands, nor take part in the sins of others; keep yourself pure.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

