---
pagetitle: Of the sacraments, part 1
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/11/10/
prev_date: Nov 10
this_url: /westminster-daily/11/11/
short_date: "1111"
this_date: Nov 11
next_url: /westminster-daily/11/12/
next_date: Nov 12
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 27: Of the Sacraments

<span class="q">Q 1.</span> Sacraments are holy signs and seals of the covenant of grace,[^fnref:wcf1] immediately instituted by God,[^fnref:wcf2] to represent Christ, and his benefits; and to confirm our interest in him:[^fnref:wcf3] as also, to put a visible difference between those that belong unto the church, and the rest of the world;[^fnref:wcf4] and solemnly to engage them to the service of God in Christ, according to his Word.[^fnref:wcf5]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 4:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45004011.01-1">He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that righteousness would be counted to them as well,</p> </div><h5>Genesis 17:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01017007.01-2">And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and to your offspring after you.</p> </div><h5>Genesis 17:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01017010.01-3">This is my covenant, which you shall keep, between me and you and your offspring after you: Every male among you shall be circumcised.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 28:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40028019.01-1"><span class="woc">Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 11:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011023.01-2">For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 10:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46010016.01-1">The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ?</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 11:25-26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011025.01-2">In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 3:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48003017.01-3">This is what I mean: the law, which came 430 years afterward, does not annul a covenant previously ratified by God, so as to make the promise void.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 15:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45015008.08-1">For I tell you that Christ became a servant to the circumcised to show God's truthfulness, in order to confirm the promises given to the patriarchs,</p> </div><h5>Exodus 12:48</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02012048.01-2">If a stranger shall sojourn with you and would keep the Passover to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, let all his males be circumcised. Then he may come near and keep it; he shall be as a native of the land. But no uncircumcised person shall eat of it.</p> </div><h5>Genesis 34:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01034014.01-3">They said to them, &#8220;We cannot do this thing, to give our sister to one who is uncircumcised, for that would be a disgrace to us.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 6:3-4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006003.01-1">Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 10:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46010016.01-2">The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ?</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 10:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46010021.01-3">You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

