---
pagetitle: What are the parts of a sacrament?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/11/12/
prev_date: Nov 12
this_url: /westminster-daily/11/13/
short_date: "1113"
this_date: Nov 13
next_url: /westminster-daily/11/14/
next_date: Nov 14
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 27: Of the Sacraments

There is, in every sacrament, a spiritual relation, or sacramental union, between the sign and the thing signified: whence it comes to pass, that the names and effects of the one are attributed to the other.[^fnref:wcf1]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 17:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01017010.01-1">This is my covenant, which you shall keep, between me and you and your offspring after you: Every male among you shall be circumcised.</p> </div><h5>Matthew 26:27-28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40026027.01-2">And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;Drink of it, all of you,</span> <span class="woc">for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.</span></p> </div><h5>Titus 3:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56003005.01-3">he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">Q 163.</span> What are the parts of a sacrament?

<span class="q">A.</span> The parts of a sacrament are two; the one an outward and sensible sign, used according to Christ's own appointment; the other an inward and spiritual grace thereby signified.[^fnref:wlc1]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 3:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40003011.01-1">&#8220;I baptize you with water for repentance, but he who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire.</p> </div><h5>1 Peter 3:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60003021.01-2">Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,</p> </div><h5>Titus 3:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56003005.01-3">he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit,</p> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 10:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05010016.01-4">Circumcise therefore the foreskin of your heart, and be no longer stubborn.</p> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 30:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05030006.01-5">And the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your offspring, so that you will love the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God with all your heart and with all your soul, that you may live.</p> </div><h5>Jeremiah 4:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p24004004.01-6">Circumcise yourselves to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>remove the foreskin of your hearts,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>O men of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem;<br /> lest my wrath go forth like fire,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and burn with none to quench it,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>because of the evil of your deeds.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

