---
pagetitle: Of the sacraments, part 3
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/11/13/
prev_date: Nov 13
this_url: /westminster-daily/11/14/
short_date: "1114"
this_date: Nov 14
next_url: /westminster-daily/11/15/
next_date: Nov 15
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 27: Of the Sacraments

<span class="q">3.</span> The grace which is exhibited in or by the sacraments rightly used, is not conferred by any power in them; neither doth the efficacy of a sacrament depend upon the piety or intention of him that doth administer it:[^fnref:wcf1] but upon the work of the Spirit,[^fnref:wcf2] and the word of institution, which contains, together with a precept authorizing the use thereof, a promise of benefit to worthy receivers.[^fnref:wcf3]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 2:28-29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45002028.01-1">For no one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical. But a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter. His praise is not from man but from God.</p> </div><h5>1 Peter 3:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60003021.01-2">Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 3:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40003011.01-1">&#8220;I baptize you with water for repentance, but he who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 12:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46012013.01-2">For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body&#8212;Jews or Greeks, slaves or free&#8212;and all were made to drink of one Spirit.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 26:27-28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40026027.01-1">And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;Drink of it, all of you,</span> <span class="woc">for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 28:19-20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40028019.01-2"><span class="woc">Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,</span> <span class="woc">teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

