---
pagetitle: How do the sacraments become effectual means of salvation?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/11/14/
prev_date: Nov 14
this_url: /westminster-daily/11/15/
this_date: Nov 15
next_url: /westminster-daily/11/16/
next_date: Nov 16
---

#### Larger Catechism

161\. How do the sacraments become effectual means of salvation?

A. The sacraments become effectual means of salvation, not by any power in themselves, or any virtue derived from the piety or intention of him by whom they are administered, but only by the working of the Holy Ghost, and the blessing of Christ, by whom they are instituted.[^fnref:wlc1]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Peter 3:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60003021.01-1">Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,</p> </div><h5>Acts 8:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44008013.01-2">Even Simon himself believed, and after being baptized he continued with Philip. And seeing signs and great miracles performed, he was amazed.</p> </div><h5>Acts 8:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44008023.01-3">For I see that you are in the gall of bitterness and in the bond of iniquity.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 3:5-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46003005.01-4">What then is Apollos? What is Paul? Servants through whom you believed, as the Lord assigned to each. I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the growth. So neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything, but only God who gives the growth.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 1:12-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46001012.01-5">What I mean is that each one of you says, &#8220;I follow Paul,&#8221; or &#8220;I follow Apollos,&#8221; or &#8220;I follow Cephas,&#8221; or &#8220;I follow Christ.&#8221; Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? I thank God that I baptized none of you except Crispus and Gaius, so that no one may say that you were baptized in my name. (I did baptize also the household of Stephanas. Beyond that, I do not know whether I baptized anyone else.) For Christ did not send me to baptize but to preach the gospel, and not with words of eloquent wisdom, lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 12:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46012013.01-6">For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body&#8212;Jews or Greeks, slaves or free&#8212;and all were made to drink of one Spirit.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 6:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46006011.01-7">And such were some of you. But you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Shorter Catechism

91\. How do the sacraments become effectual means of salvation?

A. The sacraments become effectual means of salvation, not from any virtue in them, or in him that doth administer them; but only by the blessing of Christ, and the working of his Spirit in them that by faith receive them.[^fnref:wsc1]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 3:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46003007.01-1">So neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything, but only God who gives the growth.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 1:12-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46001012.01-2">What I mean is that each one of you says, &#8220;I follow Paul,&#8221; or &#8220;I follow Apollos,&#8221; or &#8220;I follow Cephas,&#8221; or &#8220;I follow Christ.&#8221; Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? I thank God that I baptized none of you except Crispus and Gaius, so that no one may say that you were baptized in my name. (I did baptize also the household of Stephanas. Beyond that, I do not know whether I baptized anyone else.) For Christ did not send me to baptize but to preach the gospel, and not with words of eloquent wisdom, lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

