---
pagetitle: What is baptism?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/11/19/
prev_date: Nov 19
this_url: /westminster-daily/11/20/
short_date: "1120"
this_date: Nov 20
next_url: /westminster-daily/11/21/
next_date: Nov 21
---

#### Shorter Catechism

<span class="q">Q 94.</span> What is baptism?

<span class="q">A.</span> Baptism is a sacrament, wherein the washing with water in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost,[^fnref:wsc1] doth signify and seal our ingrafting into Christ, and partaking of the benefits of the covenant of grace, and our engagement to be the Lord's.[^fnref:wsc2]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 28:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40028019.01-1"><span class="woc">Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 2:38-42</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002038.01-1">And Peter said to them, &#8220;Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself.&#8221; And with many other words he bore witness and continued to exhort them, saying, &#8220;Save yourselves from this crooked generation.&#8221; So those who received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about three thousand souls.</p>   <p id="p44002042.06-1">And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers.</p> </div><h5>Acts 22:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44022016.01-2">And now why do you wait? Rise and be baptized and wash away your sins, calling on his name.&#8217;</p> </div><h5>Romans 6:3-4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006003.01-3">Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 3:26-27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48003026.01-4">for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.</p> </div><h5>1 Peter 3:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60003021.01-5">Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">Q 165.</span> What is baptism?

<span class="q">A.</span> Baptism is a sacrament of the new testament, wherein Christ hath ordained the washing with water in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost,[^fnref:wlc1] to be a sign and seal of ingrafting into himself,[^fnref:wlc2] of remission of sins by his blood,[^fnref:wlc3] and regeneration by his Spirit;[^fnref:wlc4] of adoption,[^fnref:wlc5] and resurrection unto everlasting life;[^fnref:wlc6] and whereby the parties baptized are solemnly admitted into the visible church,[^fnref:wlc7] and enter into an open and professed engagement to be wholly and only the Lord's.[^fnref:wlc8]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 28:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40028019.01-1"><span class="woc">Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Galatians 3:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48003027.01-1">For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.</p> </div><h5>Romans 6:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006003.01-2">Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death?  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Mark 1:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p41001004.01-1">John appeared, baptizing in the wilderness and proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins.</p> </div><h5>Revelation 1:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66001005.01-2">and from Jesus Christ the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of kings on earth.</p> <p id="p66001005.20-2">To him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood</p> </div><h5>Acts 2:38</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002038.01-3">And Peter said to them, &#8220;Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.</p> </div><h5>Acts 22:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44022016.01-4">And now why do you wait? Rise and be baptized and wash away your sins, calling on his name.&#8217;</p> </div><h5>1 Peter 3:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60003021.01-5">Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Titus 3:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56003005.01-1">he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit,</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 5:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49005026.01-2">that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word,</p> </div><h5>Acts 2:38</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002038.01-3">And Peter said to them, &#8220;Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Galatians 3:26-27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48003026.01-1">for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc6]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 15:29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46015029.01-1">Otherwise, what do people mean by being baptized on behalf of the dead? If the dead are not raised at all, why are people baptized on their behalf?</p> </div><h5>Romans 6:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006005.01-2">For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc7]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 12:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46012013.01-1">For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body&#8212;Jews or Greeks, slaves or free&#8212;and all were made to drink of one Spirit.</p> </div><h5>Acts 2:41</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002041.01-2">So those who received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about three thousand souls.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc8]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 6:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006004.01-1">We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life.</p> </div><h5>Acts 2:38-42</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002038.01-2">And Peter said to them, &#8220;Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself.&#8221; And with many other words he bore witness and continued to exhort them, saying, &#8220;Save yourselves from this crooked generation.&#8221; So those who received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about three thousand souls.</p>   <p id="p44002042.06-2">And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

