---
pagetitle: Of baptism, part 4
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/11/22/
prev_date: Nov 22
this_url: /westminster-daily/11/23/
short_date: 1123
this_date: Nov 23
next_url: /westminster-daily/11/24/
next_date: Nov 24
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 28: Of Baptism

4\. Not only those that do actually profess faith in and obedience unto Christ,[^fnref:wcf1] but also the infants of one, or both, believing parents, are to be baptized.[^fnref:wcf2]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Mark 16:15-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p41016015.01-1">And he said to them, <span class="woc">&#8220;Go into all the world and proclaim the gospel to the whole creation.</span> <span class="woc">Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned.</span></p> </div><h5>Acts 8:36-38</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44008036.01-2">And as they were going along the road they came to some water, and the eunuch said, &#8220;See, here is water! What prevents me from being baptized?&#8221; And he commanded the chariot to stop, and they both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 17:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01017007.01-1">And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and to your offspring after you.</p> </div><h5>Genesis 17:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01017009.01-2">And God said to Abraham, &#8220;As for you, you shall keep my covenant, you and your offspring after you throughout their generations.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 3:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48003009.01-3">So then, those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 3:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48003014.01-4">so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith.</p> </div><h5>Colossians 2:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51002011.01-5">In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ, having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead.</p> </div><h5>Acts 2:38-39</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002038.01-6">And Peter said to them, &#8220;Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Romans 4:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45004011.01-7">He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to make him the father of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but who also walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 7:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46007014.01-8">For the unbelieving husband is made holy because of his wife, and the unbelieving wife is made holy because of her husband. Otherwise your children would be unclean, but as it is, they are holy.</p> </div><h5>Matthew 28:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40028019.01-9"><span class="woc">Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,</span></p> </div><h5>Mark 10:13-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p41010013.07-10">And they were bringing children to him that he might touch them, and the disciples rebuked them. But when Jesus saw it, he was indignant and said to them, <span class="woc">&#8220;Let the children come to me; do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God.</span> <span class="woc">Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it.&#8221;</span> And he took them in his arms and blessed them, laying his hands on them.</p> </div><h5>Luke 18:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p42018015.07-11">Now they were bringing even infants to him that he might touch them. And when the disciples saw it, they rebuked them.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

