---
pagetitle: To whom is baptism to be administered?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/11/23/
prev_date: Nov 23
this_url: /westminster-daily/11/24/
this_date: Nov 24
next_url: /westminster-daily/11/25/
next_date: Nov 25
---

#### Shorter Catechism

95\. To whom is baptism to be administered?

A. Baptism is not to be administered to any that are out of the visible church, till they profess their faith in Christ, and obedience to him;[^fnref:wsc1] but the infants of such as are members of the visible church are to be baptized.[^fnref:wsc2]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 2:41</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002041.01-1">So those who received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about three thousand souls.</p> </div><h5>Acts 8:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44008012.01-2">But when they believed Philip as he preached good news about the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women.</p> </div><h5>Acts 8:36</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44008036.01-3">And as they were going along the road they came to some water, and the eunuch said, &#8220;See, here is water! What prevents me from being baptized?&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Acts 8:38</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44008038.01-4">And he commanded the chariot to stop, and they both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him.</p> </div><h5>Acts 18:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44018008.01-5">Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord, together with his entire household. And many of the Corinthians hearing Paul believed and were baptized.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 17:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01017007.01-1">And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and to your offspring after you.</p> </div><h5>Genesis 17:9-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01017009.01-2">And God said to Abraham, &#8220;As for you, you shall keep my covenant, you and your offspring after you throughout their generations. This is my covenant, which you shall keep, between me and you and your offspring after you: Every male among you shall be circumcised. You shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskins, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you.</p> </div><h5>Acts 2:38-39</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002038.01-3">And Peter said to them, &#8220;Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Acts 16:32-33</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44016032.01-4">And they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house. And he took them the same hour of the night and washed their wounds; and he was baptized at once, he and all his family.</p> </div><h5>Colossians 2:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51002011.01-5">In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ, having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

166\. Unto whom is baptism to be administered?

A. Baptism is not to be administered to any that are out of the visible church, and so strangers from the covenant of promise, till they profess their faith in Christ, and obedience to him,[^fnref:wlc1] but infants descending from parents, either both, or but one of them, professing faith in Christ, and obedience to him, are in that respect within the covenant, and to be baptized.[^fnref:wlc2]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 2:38-39</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002038.01-1">And Peter said to them, &#8220;Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Acts 2:41</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002041.01-2">So those who received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about three thousand souls.</p> </div><h5>Acts 8:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44008012.01-3">But when they believed Philip as he preached good news about the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women.</p> </div><h5>Acts 8:36</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44008036.01-4">And as they were going along the road they came to some water, and the eunuch said, &#8220;See, here is water! What prevents me from being baptized?&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Acts 8:38</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44008038.01-5">And he commanded the chariot to stop, and they both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him.</p> </div><h5>Acts 16:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44016015.01-6">And after she was baptized, and her household as well, she urged us, saying, &#8220;If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come to my house and stay.&#8221; And she prevailed upon us.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Colossians 2:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51002011.01-1">In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ, having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead.</p> </div><h5>Acts 2:38-39</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002038.01-2">And Peter said to them, &#8220;Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Romans 4:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45004011.01-3">He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to make him the father of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but who also walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 7:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46007014.01-4">For the unbelieving husband is made holy because of his wife, and the unbelieving wife is made holy because of her husband. Otherwise your children would be unclean, but as it is, they are holy.</p> </div><h5>Luke 18:15-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p42018015.07-5">Now they were bringing even infants to him that he might touch them. And when the disciples saw it, they rebuked them. But Jesus called them to him, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;Let the children come to me, and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God.</span></p> </div><h5>Genesis 17:7-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01017007.01-6">And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and to your offspring after you. And I will give to you and to your offspring after you the land of your sojournings, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God.&#8221;</p>  <p id="p01017009.01-6">And God said to Abraham, &#8220;As for you, you shall keep my covenant, you and your offspring after you throughout their generations.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 3:9-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48003009.01-7">So then, those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith.</p>   <p id="p48003010.07-7">For all who rely on works of the law are under a curse; for it is written, &#8220;Cursed be everyone who does not abide by all things written in the Book of the Law, and do them.&#8221; Now it is evident that no one is justified before God by the law, for &#8220;The righteous shall live by faith.&#8221; But the law is not of faith, rather &#8220;The one who does them shall live by them.&#8221; Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us&#8212;for it is written, &#8220;Cursed is everyone who is hanged on a tree&#8221;&#8212; so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith.</p> </div><h5>Romans 11:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45011016.01-8">If the dough offered as firstfruits is holy, so is the whole lump, and if the root is holy, so are the branches.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

