---
pagetitle: Of baptism, part 5
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/11/24/
prev_date: Nov 24
this_url: /westminster-daily/11/25/
short_date: "1125"
this_date: Nov 25
next_url: /westminster-daily/11/26/
next_date: Nov 26
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 28: Of Baptism

<span class="q">5.</span> Although it be a great sin to contemn or neglect this ordinance,[^fnref:wcf1] yet grace and salvation are not so inseparably annexed unto it, as that no person can be regenerated, or saved, without it;[^fnref:wcf2] or, that all that are baptized are undoubtedly regenerated.[^fnref:wcf3]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Luke 7:30</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42007030.01-1">but the Pharisees and the lawyers rejected the purpose of God for themselves, not having been baptized by him.)</p> </div><h5>Exodus 4:24-26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02004024.01-2">At a lodging place on the way the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> met him and sought to put him to death. Then Zipporah took a flint and cut off her son's foreskin and touched Moses' feet with it and said, &#8220;Surely you are a bridegroom of blood to me!&#8221; So he let him alone. It was then that she said, &#8220;A bridegroom of blood,&#8221; because of the circumcision.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 4:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45004011.01-1">He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that righteousness would be counted to them as well,</p> </div><h5>Acts 10:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44010002.01-2">a devout man who feared God with all his household, gave alms generously to the people, and prayed continually to God.</p> </div><h5>Acts 10:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44010004.01-3">And he stared at him in terror and said, &#8220;What is it, Lord?&#8221; And he said to him, &#8220;Your prayers and your alms have ascended as a memorial before God.</p> </div><h5>Acts 10:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44010022.01-4">And they said, &#8220;Cornelius, a centurion, an upright and God-fearing man, who is well spoken of by the whole Jewish nation, was directed by a holy angel to send for you to come to his house and to hear what you have to say.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Acts 10:31</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44010031.01-5">and said, &#8216;Cornelius, your prayer has been heard and your alms have been remembered before God.</p> </div><h5>Acts 10:45</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44010045.01-6">And the believers from among the circumcised who had come with Peter were amazed, because the gift of the Holy Spirit was poured out even on the Gentiles.</p> </div><h5>Acts 10:47</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44010047.01-7">&#8220;Can anyone withhold water for baptizing these people, who have received the Holy Spirit just as we have?&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 8:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44008013.01-1">Even Simon himself believed, and after being baptized he continued with Philip. And seeing signs and great miracles performed, he was amazed.</p> </div><h5>Acts 8:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44008023.01-2">For I see that you are in the gall of bitterness and in the bond of iniquity.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

