---
pagetitle: How is baptism to be improved by us?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/11/27/
prev_date: Nov 27
this_url: /westminster-daily/11/28/
this_date: Nov 28
next_url: /westminster-daily/11/29/
next_date: Nov 29
---

#### Larger Catechism

167. How is our baptism to be improved by us?

A. The needful but much neglected duty of improving our baptism, is to be performed by us all our life long, especially in the time of temptation, and when we are present at the administration of it to others;[^fnref:wlc1] by serious and thankful consideration of the nature of it, and of the ends for which Christ instituted it, the privileges and benefits conferred and sealed thereby, and our solemn vow made therein;[^fnref:wlc2] by being humbled for our sinful defilement, our falling short of, and walking contrary to, the grace of baptism, and our engagements;[^fnref:wlc3] by growing up to assurance of pardon of sin, and of all other blessings sealed to us in that sacrament;[^fnref:wlc4] by drawing strength from the death and resurrection of Christ, into whom we are baptized, for the mortifying of sin, and quickening of grace;[^fnref:wlc5] and by endeavoring to live by faith,[^fnref:wlc6] to have our conversation in holiness and righteousness,[^fnref:wlc7] as those that have therein given up their names to Christ;[^fnref:wlc8] and to walk in brotherly love, as being baptized by the same Spirit into one body.[^fnref:wlc9]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Colossians 2:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51002011.01-1">In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ, having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead.</p> </div><h5>Romans 6:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006004.01-2">We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life.</p> </div><h5>Romans 6:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006006.01-3">We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin.</p> </div><h5>Romans 6:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006011.01-4">So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 6:3-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006003.01-1">Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life.</p>  <p id="p45006005.01-1">For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his.</p> </div><h5>1 Peter 3:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60003021.01-2">Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 1:11-13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46001011.01-1">For it has been reported to me by Chloe's people that there is quarreling among you, my brothers. What I mean is that each one of you says, &#8220;I follow Paul,&#8221; or &#8220;I follow Apollos,&#8221; or &#8220;I follow Cephas,&#8221; or &#8220;I follow Christ.&#8221; Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul?</p> </div><h5>Romans 6:2-3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006002.01-2">By no means! How can we who died to sin still live in it? Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death?  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 6:4-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006004.01-1">We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life.</p>  <p id="p45006005.01-1">For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. For one who has died has been set free from sin.</p> </div><h5>Romans 6:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006022.01-2">But now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end, eternal life.</p> </div><h5>1 Peter 3:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60003021.01-3">Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body but as an appeal to God for a good conscience, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,</p> </div><h5>Romans 5:1-2</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45005001.06-4"><span class="chapter-num" id="v45005001-4">5:1&nbsp;</span>Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God.</p> </div><h5>Jeremiah 33:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p24033008.01-5">I will cleanse them from all the guilt of their sin against me, and I will forgive all the guilt of their sin and rebellion against me.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 6:3-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006003.01-1">Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life.</p>  <p id="p45006005.01-1">For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc6]: <div class="esv"><h5>Galatians 3:26-27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48003026.01-1">for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc7]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 6:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006022.01-1">But now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end, eternal life.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc8]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 2:38</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002038.01-1">And Peter said to them, &#8220;Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 2:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48002020.01-2">I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.</p> </div><h5>Revelation 2:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66002017.01-3"><span class="woc">He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers I will give some of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone, with a new name written on the stone that no one knows except the one who receives it.&#8217;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc9]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 12:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46012013.01-1">For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body&#8212;Jews or Greeks, slaves or free&#8212;and all were made to drink of one Spirit.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 12:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46012025.01-2">that there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same care for one another.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

