---
pagetitle: Of the Lord's Supper, part 1
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/11/28/
prev_date: Nov 28
this_url: /westminster-daily/11/29/
short_date: 1129
this_date: Nov 29
next_url: /westminster-daily/11/30/
next_date: Nov 30
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 29: Of the Lord's Supper

1\. Our Lord Jesus, in the night wherein he was betrayed, instituted the sacrament of his body and blood, called the Lord's Supper, to be observed in his church, unto the end of the world, for the perpetual remembrance of the sacrifice of himself in his death; the sealing all benefits thereof unto true believers, their spiritual nourishment and growth in him, their further engagement in and to all duties which they owe unto him; and, to be a bond and pledge of their communion with him, and with each other, as members of his mystical body.[^fnref:wcf1]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 11:23-26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011023.01-1">For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, <span class="woc">&#8220;This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 10:16-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46010016.01-2">The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 10:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46010021.01-3">You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 12:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46012013.01-4">For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body&#8212;Jews or Greeks, slaves or free&#8212;and all were made to drink of one Spirit.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

