---
pagetitle: What is the Lord's Supper?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/11/29/
prev_date: Nov 29
this_url: /westminster-daily/11/30/
short_date: "1130"
this_date: Nov 30
next_url: /westminster-daily/12/01/
next_date: Dec 1
---

#### Shorter Catechism

<span class="q">Q 96.</span> What is the Lord's supper?

<span class="q">A.</span> The Lord's Supper is a sacrament, wherein, by giving and receiving bread and wine, according to Christ's appointment, his death is showed forth;[^fnref:wsc1] and the worthy receivers are, not after a corporal and carnal manner, but by faith, made partakers of his body and blood, with all his benefits, to their spiritual nourishment, and growth in grace.[^fnref:wsc2]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Luke 22:19-20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42022019.01-1">And he took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and gave it to them, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;This is my body, which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> And likewise the cup after they had eaten, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;This cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood.</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 11:23-26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011023.01-2">For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, <span class="woc">&#8220;This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 10:16-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46010016.01-1">The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">Q 168.</span> What is the Lord's Supper?

<span class="q">A.</span> The Lord's Supper is a sacrament of the new testament,[^fnref:wlc1] wherein, by giving and receiving bread and wine according to the appointment of Jesus Christ, his death is showed forth; and they that worthily communicate feed upon his body and blood, to their spiritual nourishment and growth in grace;[^fnref:wlc2] have their union and communion with him confirmed;[^fnref:wlc3] testify and renew their thankfulness,[^fnref:wlc4] and engagement to God,[^fnref:wlc5] and their mutual love and fellowship each with other, as members of the same mystical body.[^fnref:wlc6]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Luke 22:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42022020.01-1">And likewise the cup after they had eaten, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;This cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 26:26-28</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40026026.06-1">Now as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and after blessing it broke it and gave it to the disciples, and said, <span class="woc">&#8220;Take, eat; this is my body.&#8221;</span> And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;Drink of it, all of you,</span> <span class="woc">for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 11:23-26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011023.01-2">For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, <span class="woc">&#8220;This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 10:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46010016.01-1">The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ?  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 11:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011024.01-1">and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, <span class="woc">&#8220;This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 10:14-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46010014.01-1">Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry. I speak as to sensible people; judge for yourselves what I say. The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ?</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 10:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46010021.01-2">You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons.</p> </div><h5>Romans 7:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45007004.01-3">Likewise, my brothers, you also have died to the law through the body of Christ, so that you may belong to another, to him who has been raised from the dead, in order that we may bear fruit for God.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc6]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 10:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46010017.01-1">Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

