---
pagetitle: What doth the conclusion of the Lord's prayer teach us?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/09/30/
prev_date: Sep 30
this_url: /westminster-daily/10/01/
this_date: Oct 1
next_url: /westminster-daily/10/02/
next_date: Oct 2
---

#### Shorter Catechism

107. What doth the conclusion of the Lord's prayer teach us?

A. The conclusion of the Lord's Prayer, which is, For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Amen, teacheth us to take our encouragement in prayer from God only,[^fnref:wsc1] and in our prayers to praise him, ascribing kingdom, power, and glory to him;[^fnref:wsc2] and, in testimony of our desire, and assurance to be heard, we say, Amen.[^fnref:wsc3]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Daniel 9:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p27009004.01-1">I prayed to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> my God and made confession, saying, &#8220;O Lord, the great and awesome God, who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments,</p> </div><h5>Daniel 9:7-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p27009007.01-2">To you, O Lord, belongs righteousness, but to us open shame, as at this day, to the men of Judah, to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to all Israel, those who are near and those who are far away, in all the lands to which you have driven them, because of the treachery that they have committed against you. To us, O <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, belongs open shame, to our kings, to our princes, and to our fathers, because we have sinned against you. To the Lord our God belong mercy and forgiveness, for we have rebelled against him</p> </div><h5>Daniel 9:16-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p27009016.01-3">&#8220;O Lord, according to all your righteous acts, let your anger and your wrath turn away from your city Jerusalem, your holy hill, because for our sins, and for the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and your people have become a byword among all who are around us. Now therefore, O our God, listen to the prayer of your servant and to his pleas for mercy, and for your own sake, O Lord, make your face to shine upon your sanctuary, which is desolate. O my God, incline your ear and hear. Open your eyes and see our desolations, and the city that is called by your name. For we do not present our pleas before you because of our righteousness, but because of your great mercy. O Lord, hear; O Lord, forgive. O Lord, pay attention and act. Delay not, for your own sake, O my God, because your city and your people are called by your name.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Luke 18:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p42018001.07-4"><span class="chapter-num" id="v42018001-4">18:1&nbsp;</span>And he told them a parable to the effect that they ought always to pray and not lose heart.</p> </div><h5>Luke 18:7-8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42018007.01-5"><span class="woc">And will not God give justice to his elect, who cry to him day and night? Will he delay long over them?</span> <span class="woc">I tell you, he will give justice to them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on earth?&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Chronicles 29:10-13</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p13029010.06-1">Therefore David blessed the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> in the presence of all the assembly. And David said: &#8220;Blessed are you, O <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, the God of Israel our father, forever and ever. Yours, O <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty, for all that is in the heavens and in the earth is yours. Yours is the kingdom, O <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, and you are exalted as head above all. Both riches and honor come from you, and you rule over all. In your hand are power and might, and in your hand it is to make great and to give strength to all. And now we thank you, our God, and praise your glorious name.</p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 1:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54001017.01-2">To the King of ages, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen.</p> </div><h5>Revelation 5:11-13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p66005011.01-3">Then I looked, and I heard around the throne and the living creatures and the elders the voice of many angels, numbering myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice, &#8220;Worthy is the Lamb who was slain, to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing!&#8221; And I heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and in the sea, and all that is in them, saying, &#8220;To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and might forever and ever!&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 14:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46014016.01-1">Otherwise, if you give thanks with your spirit, how can anyone in the position of an outsider say &#8220;Amen&#8221; to your thanksgiving when he does not know what you are saying?</p> </div><h5>Revelation 22:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66022020.01-2">He who testifies to these things says, <span class="woc">&#8220;Surely I am coming soon.&#8221;</span> Amen. Come, Lord Jesus!  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

196. What doth the conclusion of the Lord's Prayer teach us?

A. The conclusion of the Lord's Prayer, (which is, For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Amen.[^fnref:wlc1]) teacheth us to enforce our petitions with arguments,[^fnref:wlc2] which are to be taken, not from any worthiness in ourselves, or in any other creature, but from God;[^fnref:wlc3] and with our prayers to join praises,[^fnref:wlc4] ascribing to God alone eternal sovereignty, omnipotency, and glorious excellency;[^fnref:wlc5] in regard whereof, as he is able and willing to help us,[^fnref:wlc6] so we by faith are emboldened to plead with him that he would,[^fnref:wlc7] and quietly to rely upon him, that he will fulfill our requests.[^fnref:wlc8] And, to testify this our desire and assurance, we say, Amen.[^fnref:wlc9]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 6:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p40006013.01-1"><span class="woc">And lead us not into temptation,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>but deliver us from evil.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 15:30</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45015030.01-1">I appeal to you, brothers, by our Lord Jesus Christ and by the love of the Spirit, to strive together with me in your prayers to God on my behalf,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Daniel 9:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p27009004.01-1">I prayed to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> my God and made confession, saying, &#8220;O Lord, the great and awesome God, who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments,</p> </div><h5>Daniel 9:7-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p27009007.01-2">To you, O Lord, belongs righteousness, but to us open shame, as at this day, to the men of Judah, to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to all Israel, those who are near and those who are far away, in all the lands to which you have driven them, because of the treachery that they have committed against you. To us, O <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, belongs open shame, to our kings, to our princes, and to our fathers, because we have sinned against you. To the Lord our God belong mercy and forgiveness, for we have rebelled against him</p> </div><h5>Daniel 9:16-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p27009016.01-3">&#8220;O Lord, according to all your righteous acts, let your anger and your wrath turn away from your city Jerusalem, your holy hill, because for our sins, and for the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and your people have become a byword among all who are around us. Now therefore, O our God, listen to the prayer of your servant and to his pleas for mercy, and for your own sake, O Lord, make your face to shine upon your sanctuary, which is desolate. O my God, incline your ear and hear. Open your eyes and see our desolations, and the city that is called by your name. For we do not present our pleas before you because of our righteousness, but because of your great mercy. O Lord, hear; O Lord, forgive. O Lord, pay attention and act. Delay not, for your own sake, O my God, because your city and your people are called by your name.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Philippians 4:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50004006.01-1">do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Chronicles 29:10-13</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p13029010.06-1">Therefore David blessed the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> in the presence of all the assembly. And David said: &#8220;Blessed are you, O <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, the God of Israel our father, forever and ever. Yours, O <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty, for all that is in the heavens and in the earth is yours. Yours is the kingdom, O <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, and you are exalted as head above all. Both riches and honor come from you, and you rule over all. In your hand are power and might, and in your hand it is to make great and to give strength to all. And now we thank you, our God, and praise your glorious name.</p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 1:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54001017.01-2">To the King of ages, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen.</p> </div><h5>Revelation 5:11-13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p66005011.01-3">Then I looked, and I heard around the throne and the living creatures and the elders the voice of many angels, numbering myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice, &#8220;Worthy is the Lamb who was slain, to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing!&#8221; And I heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and in the sea, and all that is in them, saying, &#8220;To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and might forever and ever!&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc6]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 3:20-21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49003020.01-1">Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think, according to the power at work within us, to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen.</p> </div><h5>Luke 11:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42011013.01-2"><span class="woc">If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him!&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc7]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Chronicles 20:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p14020006.01-1">and said, &#8220;O <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, God of our fathers, are you not God in heaven? You rule over all the kingdoms of the nations. In your hand are power and might, so that none is able to withstand you.</p> </div><h5>2 Chronicles 20:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p14020011.01-2">behold, they reward us by coming to drive us out of your possession, which you have given us to inherit.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc8]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Chronicles 14:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p14014011.01-1">And Asa cried to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> his God, &#8220;O <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, there is none like you to help, between the mighty and the weak. Help us, O <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> our God, for we rely on you, and in your name we have come against this multitude. O <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, you are our God; let not man prevail against you.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc9]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 14:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46014016.01-1">Otherwise, if you give thanks with your spirit, how can anyone in the position of an outsider say &#8220;Amen&#8221; to your thanksgiving when he does not know what you are saying?</p> </div><h5>Revelation 22:20-21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66022020.01-2">He who testifies to these things says, <span class="woc">&#8220;Surely I am coming soon.&#8221;</span> Amen. Come, Lord Jesus!</p>  <p id="p66022021.01-2">The grace of the Lord Jesus be with all. Amen.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

