---
pagetitle: Of lawful oaths and vows, part 7
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/10/07/
prev_date: Oct 7
this_url: /westminster-daily/10/08/
this_date: Oct 8
next_url: /westminster-daily/10/09/
next_date: Oct 9
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 22: Of Lawful Oaths and Vows

7\. No man may vow to do anything forbidden in the Word of God, or what would hinder any duty therein commanded, or which is not in his own power, and for the performance whereof he hath no promise of ability from God.[^fnref:wcf1] In which respects, popish monastical vows of perpetual single life, professed poverty, and regular obedience, are so far from being degrees of higher perfection, that they are superstitious and sinful snares, in which no Christian may entangle himself.[^fnref:wcf2]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 23:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p44023012.06-1">When it was day, the Jews made a plot and bound themselves by an oath neither to eat nor drink till they had killed Paul.</p> </div><h5>Acts 23:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44023014.01-2">They went to the chief priests and elders and said, &#8220;We have strictly bound ourselves by an oath to taste no food till we have killed Paul.</p> </div><h5>Mark 6:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p41006026.01-3">And the king was exceedingly sorry, but because of his oaths and his guests he did not want to break his word to her.</p> </div><h5>Numbers 30:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p04030005.01-4">But if her father opposes her on the day that he hears of it, no vow of hers, no pledge by which she has bound herself shall stand. And the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> will forgive her, because her father opposed her.</p> </div><h5>Numbers 30:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p04030008.01-5">But if, on the day that her husband comes to hear of it, he opposes her, then he makes void her vow that was on her, and the thoughtless utterance of her lips by which she bound herself. And the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> will forgive her.</p> </div><h5>Numbers 30:12-13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p04030012.01-6">But if her husband makes them null and void on the day that he hears them, then whatever proceeds out of her lips concerning her vows or concerning her pledge of herself shall not stand. Her husband has made them void, and the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> will forgive her. Any vow and any binding oath to afflict herself, her husband may establish, or her husband may make void.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 19:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40019011.01-1">But he said to them, <span class="woc">&#8220;Not everyone can receive this saying, but only those to whom it is given.</span> <span class="woc">For there are eunuchs who have been so from birth, and there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. Let the one who is able to receive this receive it.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 7:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46007002.01-2">But because of the temptation to sexual immorality, each man should have his own wife and each woman her own husband.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 7:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46007009.01-3">But if they cannot exercise self-control, they should marry. For it is better to marry than to burn with passion.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 4:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49004028.01-4">Let the thief no longer steal, but rather let him labor, doing honest work with his own hands, so that he may have something to share with anyone in need.</p> </div><h5>1 Peter 4:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60004002.01-5">so as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh no longer for human passions but for the will of God.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 7:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46007023.01-6">You were bought with a price; do not become slaves of men.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

