---
pagetitle: Of marriage and divorce, part 3
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/10/14/
prev_date: Oct 14
this_url: /westminster-daily/10/15/
short_date: "1015"
this_date: Oct 15
next_url: /westminster-daily/10/16/
next_date: Oct 16
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 24: Of Marriage and Divorce

<span class="q">Q 3.</span> It is lawful for all sorts of people to marry, who are able with judgment to give their consent.[^fnref:wcf1] Yet it is the duty of Christians to marry only in the Lord.[^fnref:wcf2] And therefore such as profess the true reformed religion should not marry with infidels, papists, or other idolaters: neither should such as are godly be unequally yoked, by marrying with such as are notoriously wicked in their life, or maintain damnable heresies.[^fnref:wcf3]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 13:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58013004.01-1">Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed be undefiled, for God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterous.</p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 4:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54004003.01-2">who forbid marriage and require abstinence from foods that God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 7:36-38</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46007036.01-3">If anyone thinks that he is not behaving properly toward his betrothed, if his passions are strong, and it has to be, let him do as he wishes: let them marry&#8212;it is no sin. But whoever is firmly established in his heart, being under no necessity but having his desire under control, and has determined this in his heart, to keep her as his betrothed, he will do well. So then he who marries his betrothed does well, and he who refrains from marriage will do even better.</p> </div><h5>Genesis 24:57</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01024057.01-4">They said, &#8220;Let us call the young woman and ask her.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 7:39</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46007039.01-1">A wife is bound to her husband as long as he lives. But if her husband dies, she is free to be married to whom she wishes, only in the Lord.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 34:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01034014.01-1">They said to them, &#8220;We cannot do this thing, to give our sister to one who is uncircumcised, for that would be a disgrace to us.</p> </div><h5>Exodus 34:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02034016.01-2">and you take of their daughters for your sons, and their daughters whore after their gods and make your sons whore after their gods.</p> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 7:3-4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05007003.01-3">You shall not intermarry with them, giving your daughters to their sons or taking their daughters for your sons, for they would turn away your sons from following me, to serve other gods. Then the anger of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> would be kindled against you, and he would destroy you quickly.</p> </div><h5>1 Kings 11:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p11011004.01-4">For when Solomon was old his wives turned away his heart after other gods, and his heart was not wholly true to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> his God, as was the heart of David his father.</p> </div><h5>Nehemiah 13:25-27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p16013025.01-5">And I confronted them and cursed them and beat some of them and pulled out their hair. And I made them take oath in the name of God, saying, &#8220;You shall not give your daughters to their sons, or take their daughters for your sons or for yourselves. Did not Solomon king of Israel sin on account of such women? Among the many nations there was no king like him, and he was beloved by his God, and God made him king over all Israel. Nevertheless, foreign women made even him to sin. Shall we then listen to you and do all this great evil and act treacherously against our God by marrying foreign women?&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Malachi 2:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p39002011.01-6">Judah has been faithless, and abomination has been committed in Israel and in Jerusalem. For Judah has profaned the sanctuary of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, which he loves, and has married the daughter of a foreign god. May the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> cut off from the tents of Jacob any descendant of the man who does this, who brings an offering to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> of hosts!</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 6:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p47006014.07-7">Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. For what partnership has righteousness with lawlessness? Or what fellowship has light with darkness?  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

