---
pagetitle: What is the invisible church?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/10/18/
prev_date: Oct 18
this_url: /westminster-daily/10/19/
short_date: "1019"
this_date: Oct 19
next_url: /westminster-daily/10/20/
next_date: Oct 20
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 25: Of the Church

The catholic or universal church, which is invisible, consists of the whole number of the elect, that have been, are, or shall be gathered into one, under Christ the Head thereof; and is the spouse, the body, the fullness of him that filleth all in all.[^fnref:wcf1]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 1:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001010.01-1">as a plan for the fullness of time, to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 1:22-23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001022.01-2">And he put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 5:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49005023.01-3">For the husband is the head of the wife even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 5:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49005027.01-4">so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 5:32</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49005032.01-5">This mystery is profound, and I am saying that it refers to Christ and the church.</p> </div><h5>Colossians 1:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51001018.01-6">And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">Q 64.</span> What is the invisible church?

<span class="q">A.</span> The invisible church is the whole number of the elect, that have been, are, or shall be gathered into one under Christ the head.[^fnref:wlc1]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 1:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001010.01-1">as a plan for the fullness of time, to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 1:22-23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001022.01-2">And he put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all.</p> </div><h5>John 10:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43010016.01-3"><span class="woc">And I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock, one shepherd.</span></p> </div><h5>John 11:52</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43011052.01-4">and not for the nation only, but also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 5:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49005023.01-5">For the husband is the head of the wife even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 5:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49005027.01-6">so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 5:32</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49005032.01-7">This mystery is profound, and I am saying that it refers to Christ and the church.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

