---
pagetitle: What special benefits do the members of the invisible church enjoy by Christ?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/10/19/
prev_date: Oct 19
this_url: /westminster-daily/10/20/
this_date: Oct 20
next_url: /westminster-daily/10/21/
next_date: Oct 21
---

#### Larger Catechism

65. What special benefits do the members of the invisible church enjoy by Christ?

A. The members of the invisible church by Christ enjoy union and communion with him in grace and glory.[^fnref:wlc1]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 17:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43017021.01-1"><span class="woc">that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me.</span></p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:5-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002005.01-2">even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ&#8212;by grace you have been saved&#8212; and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus,</p> </div><h5>John 17:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43017024.01-3"><span class="woc">Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me, may be with me where I am, to see my glory that you have given me because you loved me before the foundation of the world.</span></p> </div><h5>1 John 1:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62001003.01-4">that which we have seen and heard we proclaim also to you, so that you too may have fellowship with us; and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son Jesus Christ.</p> </div><h5>John 1:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43001016.01-5">And from his fullness we have all received, grace upon grace.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 3:16-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49003016.01-6">that according to the riches of his glory he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his Spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith&#8212;that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth, and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God.</p> </div><h5>Philippians 3:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50003010.01-7">that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death,</p> </div><h5>Romans 6:5-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006005.01-8">For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

