---
pagetitle: Of the church, part 4
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/10/22/
prev_date: Oct 22
this_url: /westminster-daily/10/23/
short_date: "1023"
this_date: Oct 23
next_url: /westminster-daily/10/24/
next_date: Oct 24
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 25: Of the Church

<span class="q">4.</span> This catholic church hath been sometimes more, sometimes less visible.[^fnref:wcf1] And particular churches, which are members thereof, are more or less pure, according as the doctrine of the gospel is taught and embraced, ordinances administered, and public worship performed more or less purely in them.[^fnref:wcf2]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 11:3-4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45011003.01-1">&#8220;Lord, they have killed your prophets, they have demolished your altars, and I alone am left, and they seek my life.&#8221; But what is God's reply to him? &#8220;I have kept for myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to Baal.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Revelation 12:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66012006.01-2">and the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared by God, in which she is to be nourished for 1,260 days.</p> </div><h5>Revelation 12:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66012014.01-3">But the woman was given the two wings of the great eagle so that she might fly from the serpent into the wilderness, to the place where she is to be nourished for a time, and times, and half a time.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Revelation 2-3</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p66002001.06-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v66002001-1">2:1&nbsp;</span><span class="woc">&#8220;To the angel of the church in Ephesus write: &#8216;The words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand, who walks among the seven golden lampstands.</span></p>  <p class="chapter-first" id="p66002002.01-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;&#8216;I know your works, your toil and your patient endurance, and how you cannot bear with those who are evil, but have tested those who call themselves apostles and are not, and found them to be false.</span> <span class="woc">I know you are enduring patiently and bearing up for my name's sake, and you have not grown weary.</span> <span class="woc">But I have this against you, that you have abandoned the love you had at first.</span> <span class="woc">Remember therefore from where you have fallen; repent, and do the works you did at first. If not, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place, unless you repent.</span> <span class="woc">Yet this you have: you hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.</span> <span class="woc">He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers I will grant to eat of the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God.&#8217;</span></p>   <p id="p66002008.06-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;And to the angel of the church in Smyrna write: &#8216;The words of the first and the last, who died and came to life.</span></p>  <p id="p66002009.01-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;&#8216;I know your tribulation and your poverty (but you are rich) and the slander of those who say that they are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan.</span> <span class="woc">Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison, that you may be tested, and for ten days you will have tribulation. Be faithful unto death, and I will give you the crown of life.</span> <span class="woc">He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. The one who conquers will not be hurt by the second death.&#8217;</span></p>   <p id="p66002012.06-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;And to the angel of the church in Pergamum write: &#8216;The words of him who has the sharp two-edged sword.</span></p>  <p id="p66002013.01-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;&#8216;I know where you dwell, where Satan's throne is. Yet you hold fast my name, and you did not deny my faith even in the days of Antipas my faithful witness, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells.</span> <span class="woc">But I have a few things against you: you have some there who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, so that they might eat food sacrificed to idols and practice sexual immorality.</span> <span class="woc">So also you have some who hold the teaching of the Nicolaitans.</span> <span class="woc">Therefore repent. If not, I will come to you soon and war against them with the sword of my mouth.</span> <span class="woc">He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers I will give some of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone, with a new name written on the stone that no one knows except the one who receives it.&#8217;</span></p>   <p id="p66002018.06-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;And to the angel of the church in Thyatira write: &#8216;The words of the Son of God, who has eyes like a flame of fire, and whose feet are like burnished bronze.</span></p>  <p id="p66002019.01-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;&#8216;I know your works, your love and faith and service and patient endurance, and that your latter works exceed the first.</span> <span class="woc">But I have this against you, that you tolerate that woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess and is teaching and seducing my servants to practice sexual immorality and to eat food sacrificed to idols.</span> <span class="woc">I gave her time to repent, but she refuses to repent of her sexual immorality.</span> <span class="woc">Behold, I will throw her onto a sickbed, and those who commit adultery with her I will throw into great tribulation, unless they repent of her works,</span> <span class="woc">and I will strike her children dead. And all the churches will know that I am he who searches mind and heart, and I will give to each of you according to your works.</span> <span class="woc">But to the rest of you in Thyatira, who do not hold this teaching, who have not learned what some call the deep things of Satan, to you I say, I do not lay on you any other burden.</span> <span class="woc">Only hold fast what you have until I come.</span> <span class="woc">The one who conquers and who keeps my works until the end, to him I will give authority over the nations,</span> <span class="woc">and he will rule them with a rod of iron, as when earthen pots are broken in pieces, even as I myself have received authority from my Father.</span> <span class="woc">And I will give him the morning star.</span> <span class="woc">He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.&#8217;</span></p>   <p class="chapter-first" id="p66003001.06-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v66003001-1">3:1&nbsp;</span><span class="woc">&#8220;And to the angel of the church in Sardis write: &#8216;The words of him who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars.</span></p> <p id="p66003001.31-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;&#8216;I know your works. You have the reputation of being alive, but you are dead.</span> <span class="woc">Wake up, and strengthen what remains and is about to die, for I have not found your works complete in the sight of my God.</span> <span class="woc">Remember, then, what you received and heard. Keep it, and repent. If you will not wake up, I will come like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come against you.</span> <span class="woc">Yet you have still a few names in Sardis, people who have not soiled their garments, and they will walk with me in white, for they are worthy.</span> <span class="woc">The one who conquers will be clothed thus in white garments, and I will never blot his name out of the book of life. I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels.</span> <span class="woc">He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.&#8217;</span></p>   <p id="p66003007.06-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write: &#8216;The words of the holy one, the true one, who has the key of David, who opens and no one will shut, who shuts and no one opens.</span></p>  <p id="p66003008.01-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;&#8216;I know your works. Behold, I have set before you an open door, which no one is able to shut. I know that you have but little power, and yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name.</span> <span class="woc">Behold, I will make those of the synagogue of Satan who say that they are Jews and are not, but lie&#8212;behold, I will make them come and bow down before your feet and they will learn that I have loved you.</span> <span class="woc">Because you have kept my word about patient endurance, I will keep you from the hour of trial that is coming on the whole world, to try those who dwell on the earth.</span> <span class="woc">I am coming soon. Hold fast what you have, so that no one may seize your crown.</span> <span class="woc">The one who conquers, I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God. Never shall he go out of it, and I will write on him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which comes down from my God out of heaven, and my own new name.</span> <span class="woc">He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.&#8217;</span></p>   <p id="p66003014.06-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;And to the angel of the church in Laodicea write: &#8216;The words of the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of God's creation.</span></p>  <p id="p66003015.01-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;&#8216;I know your works: you are neither cold nor hot. Would that you were either cold or hot!</span> <span class="woc">So, because you are lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I will spit you out of my mouth.</span> <span class="woc">For you say, I am rich, I have prospered, and I need nothing, not realizing that you are wretched, pitiable, poor, blind, and naked.</span> <span class="woc">I counsel you to buy from me gold refined by fire, so that you may be rich, and white garments so that you may clothe yourself and the shame of your nakedness may not be seen, and salve to anoint your eyes, so that you may see.</span> <span class="woc">Those whom I love, I reprove and discipline, so be zealous and repent.</span> <span class="woc">Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and eat with him, and he with me.</span> <span class="woc">The one who conquers, I will grant him to sit with me on my throne, as I also conquered and sat down with my Father on his throne.</span> <span class="woc">He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.&#8217;&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 5:6-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46005006.01-2">Your boasting is not good. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump? Cleanse out the old leaven that you may be a new lump, as you really are unleavened. For Christ, our Passover lamb, has been sacrificed.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

