---
pagetitle: Are all they saved who hear the gospel, and live in the church?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/10/23/
prev_date: Oct 23
this_url: /westminster-daily/10/24/
short_date: "1024"
this_date: Oct 24
next_url: /westminster-daily/10/25/
next_date: Oct 25
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 25: Of the Church

<span class="q">Q 5.</span> The purest churches under heaven are subject both to mixture and error;[^fnref:wcf1] and some have so degenerated, as to become no churches of Christ, but synagogues of Satan.[^fnref:wcf2] Nevertheless, there shall be always a church on earth, to worship God according to his will.[^fnref:wcf3]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 13:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46013012.01-1">For now we see in a mirror dimly, but then face to face. Now I know in part; then I shall know fully, even as I have been fully known.</p> </div><h5>Matthew 13:24-30</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40013024.06-2">He put another parable before them, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a man who sowed good seed in his field,</span> <span class="woc">but while his men were sleeping, his enemy came and sowed weeds among the wheat and went away.</span> <span class="woc">So when the plants came up and bore grain, then the weeds appeared also.</span> <span class="woc">And the servants of the master of the house came and said to him, &#8216;Master, did you not sow good seed in your field? How then does it have weeds?&#8217;</span> <span class="woc">He said to them, &#8216;An enemy has done this.&#8217; So the servants said to him, &#8216;Then do you want us to go and gather them?&#8217;</span> <span class="woc">But he said, &#8216;No, lest in gathering the weeds you root up the wheat along with them.</span> <span class="woc">Let both grow together until the harvest, and at harvest time I will tell the reapers, Gather the weeds first and bind them in bundles to be burned, but gather the wheat into my barn.&#8217;&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 13:47</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40013047.06-3"><span class="woc">&#8220;Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a net that was thrown into the sea and gathered fish of every kind.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Revelation 18:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66018002.01-1">And he called out with a mighty voice,</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p66018002.09-1">&#8220;Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great!<br /> <span class="indent"></span>She has become a dwelling place for demons,<br /> a haunt for every unclean spirit,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>a haunt for every unclean bird,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>a haunt for every unclean and detestable beast.</p> </div> </div><h5>Romans 11:18-22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45011018.01-2">do not be arrogant toward the branches. If you are, remember it is not you who support the root, but the root that supports you. Then you will say, &#8220;Branches were broken off so that I might be grafted in.&#8221; That is true. They were broken off because of their unbelief, but you stand fast through faith. So do not become proud, but fear. For if God did not spare the natural branches, neither will he spare you. Note then the kindness and the severity of God: severity toward those who have fallen, but God's kindness to you, provided you continue in his kindness. Otherwise you too will be cut off.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 16:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40016018.01-1"><span class="woc">And I tell you, you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.</span></p> </div><h5>Psalm 72:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19072017.01-2">May his name endure forever,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>his fame continue as long as the sun!<br /> May people be blessed in him,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>all nations call him blessed!</p> </div> </div><h5>Psalm 102:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19102028.01-3">The children of your servants shall dwell secure;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>their offspring shall be established before you.</p> </div> </div><h5>Matthew 28:19-20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40028019.01-4"><span class="woc">Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,</span> <span class="woc">teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">Q 61.</span> Are all they saved who hear the gospel, and live in the church?

<span class="q">A.</span> All that hear the gospel, and live in the visible church, are not saved; but they only who are true members of the church invisible.[^fnref:wlc1]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 12:38-40</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43012038.01-1">so that the word spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled:</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p43012038.13-1">&#8220;Lord, who has believed what he heard from us,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?&#8221;</p> </div>  <p class="same-paragraph" id="p43012039.01-1">Therefore they could not believe. For again Isaiah said,</p>  <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p43012040.01-1">&#8220;He has blinded their eyes<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and hardened their heart,<br /> lest they see with their eyes,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and understand with their heart, and turn,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and I would heal them.&#8221;</p> </div> </div><h5>Romans 9:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45009006.01-2">But it is not as though the word of God has failed. For not all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel,</p> </div><h5>Matthew 22:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40022014.01-3"><span class="woc">For many are called, but few are chosen.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 7:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40007021.05-4"><span class="woc">&#8220;Not everyone who says to me, &#8216;Lord, Lord,&#8217; will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven.</span></p> </div><h5>Romans 11:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45011007.01-5">What then? Israel failed to obtain what it was seeking. The elect obtained it, but the rest were hardened,</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 10:2-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46010002.01-6">and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and all ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the spiritual Rock that followed them, and the Rock was Christ. Nevertheless, with most of them God was not pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

