---
pagetitle: Of the church, part 6
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/10/24/
prev_date: Oct 24
this_url: /westminster-daily/10/25/
this_date: Oct 25
next_url: /westminster-daily/10/26/
next_date: Oct 26
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 25: Of the Church

6\. There is no other head of the church but the Lord Jesus Christ.[^fnref:wcf1] Nor can the pope of Rome, in any sense, be head thereof.[^fnref:wcf2]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Colossians 1:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51001018.01-1">And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 1:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001022.01-2">And he put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the church,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 23:8-10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40023008.01-1"><span class="woc">But you are not to be called rabbi, for you have one teacher, and you are all brothers.</span> <span class="woc">And call no man your father on earth, for you have one Father, who is in heaven.</span> <span class="woc">Neither be called instructors, for you have one instructor, the Christ.</span></p> </div><h5>2 Thessalonians 2:3-4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p53002003.01-2">Let no one deceive you in any way. For that day will not come, unless the rebellion comes first, and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction, who opposes and exalts himself against every so-called god or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God, proclaiming himself to be God.</p> </div><h5>2 Thessalonians 2:8-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p53002008.01-3">And then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord Jesus will kill with the breath of his mouth and bring to nothing by the appearance of his coming. The coming of the lawless one is by the activity of Satan with all power and false signs and wonders,</p> </div><h5>Revelation 13:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66013006.01-4">It opened its mouth to utter blasphemies against God, blaspheming his name and his dwelling, that is, those who dwell in heaven.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

