---
pagetitle: What is that union which the elect have with Christ?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/10/25/
prev_date: Oct 25
this_url: /westminster-daily/10/26/
this_date: Oct 26
next_url: /westminster-daily/10/27/
next_date: Oct 27
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 26: Of the Communion of Saints

1\. All saints, that are united to Jesus Christ their Head, by his Spirit, and by faith, have fellowship with him in his graces, sufferings, death, resurrection, and glory:[^fnref:wcf1] and, being united to one another in love, they have communion in each other's gifts and graces,[^fnref:wcf2] and are obliged to the performance of such duties, public and private, as do conduce to their mutual good, both in the inward and outward man.[^fnref:wcf3]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 John 1:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62001003.01-1">that which we have seen and heard we proclaim also to you, so that you too may have fellowship with us; and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son Jesus Christ.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 3:16-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49003016.01-2">that according to the riches of his glory he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his Spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith&#8212;that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth, and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God.</p> </div><h5>John 1:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43001016.01-3">And from his fullness we have all received, grace upon grace.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:5-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002005.01-4">even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ&#8212;by grace you have been saved&#8212; and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus,</p> </div><h5>Philippians 3:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50003010.01-5">that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death,</p> </div><h5>Romans 6:5-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006005.01-6">For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin.</p> </div><h5>2 Timothy 2:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p55002012.01-7">if we endure, we will also reign with him;<br /> if we deny him, he also will deny us;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 4:15-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49004015.01-1">Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ, from whom the whole body, joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped, when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 12:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46012007.01-2">To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 3:21-23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46003021.01-3">So let no one boast in men. For all things are yours, whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or the present or the future&#8212;all are yours, and you are Christ's, and Christ is God's.</p> </div><h5>Colossians 2:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51002019.01-4">and not holding fast to the Head, from whom the whole body, nourished and knit together through its joints and ligaments, grows with a growth that is from God.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Thessalonians 5:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p52005011.01-1">Therefore encourage one another and build one another up, just as you are doing.</p> </div><h5>1 Thessalonians 5:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p52005014.01-2">And we urge you, brothers, admonish the idle, encourage the fainthearted, help the weak, be patient with them all.</p> </div><h5>Romans 1:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45001011.01-3">For I long to see you, that I may impart to you some spiritual gift to strengthen you&#8212; that is, that we may be mutually encouraged by each other's faith, both yours and mine.</p> </div><h5>Romans 1:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45001014.01-4">I am under obligation both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to the wise and to the foolish.</p> </div><h5>1 John 3:16-18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62003016.01-5">By this we know love, that he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. But if anyone has the world's goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him, how does God's love abide in him? Little children, let us not love in word or talk but in deed and in truth.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 6:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48006010.01-6">So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone, and especially to those who are of the household of faith.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

66\. What is that union which the elect have with Christ?

A. The union which the elect have with Christ is the work of God's grace,[^fnref:wlc1] whereby they are spiritually and mystically, yet really and inseparably, joined to Christ as their head and husband;[^fnref:wlc2] which is done in their effectual calling.[^fnref:wlc3]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 2:6-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002006.01-1">and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 1:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001022.01-1">And he put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the church,</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 6:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46006017.01-2">But he who is joined to the Lord becomes one spirit with him.</p> </div><h5>John 10:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43010028.01-3"><span class="woc">I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand.</span></p> </div><h5>Ephesians 5:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49005023.01-4">For the husband is the head of the wife even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 5:30</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49005030.01-5">because we are members of his body.</p> </div><h5>John 15:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43015005.01-6"><span class="woc">I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing.</span></p> </div><h5>Ephesians 3:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49003017.01-7">so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith&#8212;that you, being rooted and grounded in love,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Peter 5:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60005010.01-1">And after you have suffered a little while, the God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 1:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46001009.01-2">God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

