---
pagetitle: Of the communion of saints, part 2
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/10/26/
prev_date: Oct 26
this_url: /westminster-daily/10/27/
short_date: 1027
this_date: Oct 27
next_url: /westminster-daily/10/28/
next_date: Oct 28
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 26: Of the Communion of Saints

2\. Saints by profession are bound to maintain an holy fellowship and communion in the worship of God, and in performing such other spiritual services as tend to their mutual edification;[^fnref:wcf1] as also in relieving each other in outward things, according to their several abilities and necessities. Which communion, as God offereth opportunity, is to be extended unto all those who, in every place, call upon the name of the Lord Jesus.[^fnref:wcf2]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 10:24-25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58010024.01-1">And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the Day drawing near.</p> </div><h5>Acts 2:42</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p44002042.06-2">And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers.</p> </div><h5>Acts 2:46</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002046.01-3">And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts,</p> </div><h5>Isaiah 2:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23002003.01-4"><span class="indent"></span>and many peoples shall come, and say:<br /> &#8220;Come, let us go up to the mountain of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to the house of the God of Jacob,<br /> that he may teach us his ways<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and that we may walk in his paths.&#8221;<br /> For out of Zion shall go the law,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and the word of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> from Jerusalem.</p> </div> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 11:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011020.01-5">When you come together, it is not the Lord's supper that you eat.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 2:44-45</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002044.01-1">And all who believed were together and had all things in common. And they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all, as any had need.</p> </div><h5>1 John 3:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62003017.01-2">But if anyone has the world's goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him, how does God's love abide in him?</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 8-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p47008001.05-3"><span class="chapter-num" id="v47008001-3">8:1&nbsp;</span>We want you to know, brothers, about the grace of God that has been given among the churches of Macedonia, for in a severe test of affliction, their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty have overflowed in a wealth of generosity on their part. For they gave according to their means, as I can testify, and beyond their means, of their own accord, begging us earnestly for the favor of taking part in the relief of the saints&#8212; and this, not as we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord and then by the will of God to us. Accordingly, we urged Titus that as he had started, so he should complete among you this act of grace. But as you excel in everything&#8212;in faith, in speech, in knowledge, in all earnestness, and in our love for you&#8212;see that you excel in this act of grace also.</p>  <p id="p47008008.01-3">I say this not as a command, but to prove by the earnestness of others that your love also is genuine. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that you by his poverty might become rich. And in this matter I give my judgment: this benefits you, who a year ago started not only to do this work but also to desire to do it. So now finish doing it as well, so that your readiness in desiring it may be matched by your completing it out of what you have. For if the readiness is there, it is acceptable according to what a person has, not according to what he does not have. For I do not mean that others should be eased and you burdened, but that as a matter of fairness your abundance at the present time should supply their need, so that their abundance may supply your need, that there may be fairness. As it is written, &#8220;Whoever gathered much had nothing left over, and whoever gathered little had no lack.&#8221;</p>   <p id="p47008016.04-3">But thanks be to God, who put into the heart of Titus the same earnest care I have for you. For he not only accepted our appeal, but being himself very earnest he is going to you of his own accord. With him we are sending the brother who is famous among all the churches for his preaching of the gospel. And not only that, but he has been appointed by the churches to travel with us as we carry out this act of grace that is being ministered by us, for the glory of the Lord himself and to show our good will. We take this course so that no one should blame us about this generous gift that is being administered by us, for we aim at what is honorable not only in the Lord's sight but also in the sight of man. And with them we are sending our brother whom we have often tested and found earnest in many matters, but who is now more earnest than ever because of his great confidence in you. As for Titus, he is my partner and fellow worker for your benefit. And as for our brothers, they are messengers of the churches, the glory of Christ. So give proof before the churches of your love and of our boasting about you to these men.</p>   <p id="p47009001.07-3"><span class="chapter-num" id="v47009001-3">9:1&nbsp;</span>Now it is superfluous for me to write to you about the ministry for the saints, for I know your readiness, of which I boast about you to the people of Macedonia, saying that Achaia has been ready since last year. And your zeal has stirred up most of them. But I am sending the brothers so that our boasting about you may not prove empty in this matter, so that you may be ready, as I said you would be. Otherwise, if some Macedonians come with me and find that you are not ready, we would be humiliated&#8212;to say nothing of you&#8212;for being so confident. So I thought it necessary to urge the brothers to go on ahead to you and arrange in advance for the gift you have promised, so that it may be ready as a willing gift, not as an exaction.</p>   <p id="p47009006.04-3">The point is this: whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. Each one must give as he has decided in his heart, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. And God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that having all sufficiency in all things at all times, you may abound in every good work. As it is written,</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p47009009.05-3">&#8220;He has distributed freely, he has given to the poor;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>his righteousness endures forever.&#8221;</p> </div>  <p class="same-paragraph" id="p47009010.01-3">He who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness. You will be enriched in every way to be generous in every way, which through us will produce thanksgiving to God. For the ministry of this service is not only supplying the needs of the saints but is also overflowing in many thanksgivings to God. By their approval of this service, they will glorify God because of your submission flowing from your confession of the gospel of Christ, and the generosity of your contribution for them and for all others, while they long for you and pray for you, because of the surpassing grace of God upon you. Thanks be to God for his inexpressible gift!</p> </div><h5>Acts 11:29-30</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44011029.01-4">So the disciples determined, everyone according to his ability, to send relief to the brothers living in Judea. And they did so, sending it to the elders by the hand of Barnabas and Saul.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

