---
pagetitle: Of effectual calling, part 3
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/04/30/
prev_date: Apr 30
this_url: /westminster-daily/05/01/
short_date: "0501"
this_date: May 1
next_url: /westminster-daily/05/02/
next_date: May 2
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 10: Of Effectual Calling

3\. Elect infants, dying in infancy, are regenerated, and saved by Christ, through the Spirit,[^fnref:wcf1] who worketh when, and where, and how he pleaseth:[^fnref:wcf2] so also are all other elect persons who are incapable of being outwardly called by the ministry of the Word.[^fnref:wcf3]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Luke 18:15-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p42018015.07-1">Now they were bringing even infants to him that he might touch them. And when the disciples saw it, they rebuked them. But Jesus called them to him, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;Let the children come to me, and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God.</span></p> </div><h5>Acts 2:38-39</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002038.01-2">And Peter said to them, &#8220;Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>John 3:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43003003.01-3">Jesus answered him, <span class="woc">&#8220;Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again he cannot see the kingdom of God.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>John 3:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43003005.01-4">Jesus answered, <span class="woc">&#8220;Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God.</span></p> </div><h5>1 John 5:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62005012.01-5">Whoever has the Son has life; whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life.</p> </div><h5>Romans 8:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008009.01-6">You, however, are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 3:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43003008.01-1"><span class="woc">The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 John 5:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62005012.01-1">Whoever has the Son has life; whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life.</p> </div><h5>Acts 4:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44004012.01-2">And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

