---
pagetitle: Of effectual calling, part 4
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/05/01/
prev_date: May 1
this_url: /westminster-daily/05/02/
short_date: "0502"
this_date: May 2
next_url: /westminster-daily/05/03/
next_date: May 3
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 10: Of Effectual Calling

<span class="q">4.</span> Others, not elected, although they may be called by the ministry of the Word,[^fnref:wcf1] and may have some common operations of the Spirit,[^fnref:wcf2] yet they never truly come unto Christ, and therefore cannot be saved:[^fnref:wcf3] much less can men, not professing the Christian religion, be saved in any other way whatsoever, be they never so diligent to frame their lives according to the light of nature, and the laws of that religion they do profess.[^fnref:wcf4] And, to assert and maintain that they may, is very pernicious, and to be detested.[^fnref:wcf5]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 22:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40022014.01-1"><span class="woc">For many are called, but few are chosen.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 7:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40007022.01-1"><span class="woc">On that day many will say to me, &#8216;Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in your name?&#8217;</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 13:20-21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40013020.01-2"><span class="woc">As for what was sown on rocky ground, this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy,</span> <span class="woc">yet he has no root in himself, but endures for a while, and when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately he falls away.</span></p> </div><h5>Hebrews 6:4-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58006004.01-3">For it is impossible, in the case of those who have once been enlightened, who have tasted the heavenly gift, and have shared in the Holy Spirit, and have tasted the goodness of the word of God and the powers of the age to come,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 6:64-66</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43006064.01-1"><span class="woc">But there are some of you who do not believe.&#8221;</span> (For Jesus knew from the beginning who those were who did not believe, and who it was who would betray him.) And he said, <span class="woc">&#8220;This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father.&#8221;</span></p>  <p id="p43006066.01-1">After this many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him.</p> </div><h5>John 8:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43008024.01-2"><span class="woc">I told you that you would die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am he you will die in your sins.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 4:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44004012.01-1">And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>John 14:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43014006.01-2">Jesus said to him, <span class="woc">&#8220;I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me.</span></p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002012.01-3">remember that you were at that time separated from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world.</p> </div><h5>John 4:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43004022.01-4"><span class="woc">You worship what you do not know; we worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews.</span></p> </div><h5>John 17:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43017003.01-5"><span class="woc">And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf5]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 John 1:9-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p63001009.01-1">Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting, for whoever greets him takes part in his wicked works.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 16:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46016022.01-2">If anyone has no love for the Lord, let him be accursed. Our Lord, come!</p> </div><h5>Galatians 1:6-8</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p48001006.04-3">I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel&#8212; not that there is another one, but there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one we preached to you, let him be accursed.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

