---
pagetitle: Can they who have never heard the gospel be saved?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/05/02/
prev_date: May 2
this_url: /westminster-daily/05/03/
this_date: May 3
next_url: /westminster-daily/05/04/
next_date: May 4
---

#### Larger Catechism

60\. Can they who have never heard the gospel, and so know not Jesus Christ, nor believe in him, be saved by their living according to the light of nature?

A. They who, having never heard the gospel,[^fnref:wlc1] know not Jesus Christ,[^fnref:wlc2] and believe not in him, cannot be saved,[^fnref:wlc3] be they never so diligent to frame their lives according to the light of nature,[^fnref:wlc4] or the laws of that religion which they profess;[^fnref:wlc5] neither is there salvation in any other, but in Christ alone,[^fnref:wlc6] who is the Savior only of his body the church.[^fnref:wlc7]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 10:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45010014.01-1">How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching?  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Thessalonians 1:8-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p53001008.01-1">in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. They will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction, away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might,</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002012.01-2">remember that you were at that time separated from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world.</p> </div><h5>John 1:10-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43001010.01-3">He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 8:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43008024.01-1"><span class="woc">I told you that you would die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am he you will die in your sins.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>John 3:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43003018.01-2"><span class="woc">Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 1:20-24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p46001020.01-1">Where is the one who is wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since, in the wisdom of God, the world did not know God through wisdom, it pleased God through the folly of what we preach to save those who believe. For Jews demand signs and Greeks seek wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews and folly to Gentiles, but to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 4:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43004022.01-1"><span class="woc">You worship what you do not know; we worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews.</span></p> </div><h5>Romans 9:31-32</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45009031.01-2">but that Israel who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness did not succeed in reaching that law. Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith, but as if it were based on works. They have stumbled over the stumbling stone,</p> </div><h5>Philippians 3:4-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50003004.01-3">though I myself have reason for confidence in the flesh also. If anyone else thinks he has reason for confidence in the flesh, I have more: circumcised on the eighth day, of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; as to the law, a Pharisee; as to zeal, a persecutor of the church; as to righteousness under the law, blameless. But whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ. Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith&#8212;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc6]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 4:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44004012.01-1">And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc7]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 5:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49005023.01-1">For the husband is the head of the wife even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

