---
pagetitle: Of justification, part 1
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/05/04/
prev_date: May 4
this_url: /westminster-daily/05/05/
short_date: "0505"
this_date: May 5
next_url: /westminster-daily/05/06/
next_date: May 6
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 11: Of Justification

1\. Those whom God effectually calleth, he also freely justifieth:[^fnref:wcf1] not by infusing righteousness into them, but by pardoning their sins, and by accounting and accepting their persons as righteous; not for anything wrought in them, or done by them, but for Christ's sake alone; nor by imputing faith itself, the act of believing, or any other evangelical obedience to them, as their righteousness; but by imputing the obedience and satisfaction of Christ unto them,[^fnref:wcf2] they receiving and resting on him and his righteousness, by faith; which faith they have not of themselves, it is the gift of God.[^fnref:wcf3]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 8:30</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008030.01-1">And those whom he predestined he also called, and those whom he called he also justified, and those whom he justified he also glorified.</p> </div><h5>Romans 3:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45003024.01-2">and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 4:5-8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45004005.01-1">And to the one who does not work but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness, just as David also speaks of the blessing of the one to whom God counts righteousness apart from works:</p>  <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p45004007.01-1">&#8220;Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and whose sins are covered;<br />  blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not count his sin.&#8221;</p> </div> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 5:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47005019.01-2">that is, in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 5:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47005021.01-3">For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.</p> </div><h5>Romans 3:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45003022.01-4">the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction:</p> </div><h5>Romans 3:24-25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45003024.01-5">and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins.</p> </div><h5>Romans 3:27-28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45003027.01-6">Then what becomes of our boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? By a law of works? No, but by the law of faith. For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law.</p> </div><h5>Titus 3:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56003005.01-7">he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit,</p> </div><h5>Titus 3:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56003007.01-8">so that being justified by his grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 1:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001007.01-9">In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace,</p> </div><h5>Jeremiah 23:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p24023006.01-10">In his days Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely. And this is the name by which he will be called: &#8216;The <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> is our righteousness.&#8217;</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 1:30-31</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46001030.01-11">And because of him you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God, righteousness and sanctification and redemption, so that, as it is written, &#8220;Let the one who boasts, boast in the Lord.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Romans 5:17-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45005017.01-12">For if, because of one man's trespass, death reigned through that one man, much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man Jesus Christ.</p>  <p id="p45005018.01-12">Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all men. For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 10:44</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p44010044.08-1">While Peter was still saying these things, the Holy Spirit fell on all who heard the word.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 2:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48002016.01-2">yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law but through faith in Jesus Christ, so we also have believed in Christ Jesus, in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law, because by works of the law no one will be justified.</p> </div><h5>Philippians 3:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50003009.01-3">and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith&#8212;</p> </div><h5>Acts 13:38-39</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44013038.01-4">Let it be known to you therefore, brothers, that through this man forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you, and by him everyone who believes is freed from everything from which you could not be freed by the law of Moses.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:7-8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002007.01-5">so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

