---
pagetitle: Of justification, part 3
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/05/07/
prev_date: May 7
this_url: /westminster-daily/05/08/
short_date: "0508"
this_date: May 8
next_url: /westminster-daily/05/09/
next_date: May 9
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 11: Of Justification

<span class="q">3.</span> Christ, by his obedience and death, did fully discharge the debt of all those that are thus justified, and did make a proper, real, and full satisfaction to his Father's justice in their behalf.[^fnref:wcf1] Yet, inasmuch as he was given by the Father for them;[^fnref:wcf2] and his obedience and satisfaction accepted in their stead;[^fnref:wcf3] and both, freely, not for anything in them; their justification is only of free grace;[^fnref:wcf4] that both the exact justice and rich grace of God might be glorified in the justification of sinners.[^fnref:wcf5]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 5:8-10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45005008.01-1">but God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since, therefore, we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life.</p> </div><h5>Romans 5:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45005019.01-2">For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous.</p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 2:5-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54002005.01-3">For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all, which is the testimony given at the proper time.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 10:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58010010.01-4">And by that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 10:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58010014.01-5">For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified.</p> </div><h5>Daniel 9:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p27009024.04-6">&#8220;Seventy weeks are decreed about your people and your holy city, to finish the transgression, to put an end to sin, and to atone for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal both vision and prophet, and to anoint a most holy place.</p> </div><h5>Daniel 9:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p27009026.01-7">And after the sixty-two weeks, an anointed one shall be cut off and shall have nothing. And the people of the prince who is to come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary. Its end shall come with a flood, and to the end there shall be war. Desolations are decreed.</p> </div><h5>Isaiah 53:4-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23053004.01-8">Surely he has borne our griefs<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and carried our sorrows;<br /> yet we esteemed him stricken,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>smitten by God, and afflicted.<br />  But he was wounded for our transgressions;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he was crushed for our iniquities;<br /> upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and with his stripes we are healed.<br />  All we like sheep have gone astray;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>we have turned&#8212;every one&#8212;to his own way;<br /> and the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> has laid on him<br /> <span class="indent"></span>the iniquity of us all.</p> </div> </div><h5>Isaiah 53:10-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23053010.01-9">Yet it was the will of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> to crush him;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he has put him to grief;<br /> when his soul makes an offering for guilt,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he shall see his offspring; he shall prolong his days;<br /> the will of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> shall prosper in his hand.<br />  Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied;<br /> by his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>make many to be accounted righteous,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and he shall bear their iniquities.<br />  Therefore I will divide him a portion with the many,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and he shall divide the spoil with the strong,<br /> because he poured out his soul to death<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and was numbered with the transgressors;<br /> yet he bore the sin of many,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and makes intercession for the transgressors.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 8:32</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008032.01-1">He who did not spare his own Son but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things?  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Corinthians 5:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47005021.01-1">For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.</p> </div><h5>Matthew 3:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40003017.01-2">and behold, a voice from heaven said, &#8220;This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 5:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49005002.01-3">And walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 3:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45003024.01-1">and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus,</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 1:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001007.01-2">In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 3:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45003026.01-1">It was to show his righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002007.01-2">so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

