---
pagetitle: Of sanctification, part 1
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/05/14/
prev_date: May 14
this_url: /westminster-daily/05/15/
short_date: 0515
this_date: May 15
next_url: /westminster-daily/05/16/
next_date: May 16
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 13: Of Sanctification

1\. They, who are once effectually called, and regenerated, having a new heart, and a new spirit created in them, are further sanctified, really and personally, through the virtue of Christ's death and resurrection,[^fnref:wcf1] by his Word and Spirit dwelling in them:[^fnref:wcf2] the dominion of the whole body of sin is destroyed,[^fnref:wcf3] and the several lusts thereof are more and more weakened and mortified;[^fnref:wcf4] and they more and more quickened and strengthened in all saving graces,[^fnref:wcf5] to the practice of true holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord.[^fnref:wcf6]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 6:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46006011.01-1">And such were some of you. But you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God.</p> </div><h5>Acts 20:32</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44020032.01-2">And now I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified.</p> </div><h5>Philippians 3:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50003010.01-3">that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death,</p> </div><h5>Romans 6:5-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006005.01-4">For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 17:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43017017.01-1"><span class="woc">Sanctify them in the truth; your word is truth.</span></p> </div><h5>Ephesians 5:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49005026.01-2">that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word,</p> </div><h5>2 Thessalonians 2:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p53002013.03-3">But we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the firstfruits to be saved, through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 6:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006006.01-1">We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin.</p> </div><h5>Romans 6:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006014.01-2">For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Galatians 5:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48005024.01-1">And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.</p> </div><h5>Romans 8:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008013.01-2">For if you live according to the flesh you will die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Colossians 1:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51001011.01-1">May you be strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might, for all endurance and patience with joy,</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 3:16-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49003016.01-2">that according to the riches of his glory he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his Spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith&#8212;that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth, and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf6]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Corinthians 7:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47007001.01-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v47007001-1">7:1&nbsp;</span>Since we have these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit, bringing holiness to completion in the fear of God.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 12:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58012014.01-2">Strive for peace with everyone, and for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

