---
pagetitle: Whence ariseth the imperfection of sanctification in believers?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/05/16/
prev_date: May 16
this_url: /westminster-daily/05/17/
this_date: May 17
next_url: /westminster-daily/05/18/
next_date: May 18
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 13: Of Sanctification

2. This sanctification is throughout, in the whole man;[^fnref:wcf1] yet imperfect in this life, there abiding still some remnants of corruption in every part;[^fnref:wcf2] whence ariseth a continual and irreconcilable war, the flesh lusting against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh.[^fnref:wcf3]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Thessalonians 5:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p52005023.01-1">Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 John 1:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62001010.01-1">If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us.</p> </div><h5>Romans 7:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45007018.01-2">For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my flesh. For I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out.</p> </div><h5>Romans 7:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45007023.01-3">but I see in my members another law waging war against the law of my mind and making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members.</p> </div><h5>Philippians 3:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p50003012.05-4">Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect, but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Galatians 5:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48005017.01-1">For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do.</p> </div><h5>1 Peter 2:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60002011.01-2">Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh, which wage war against your soul.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

78. Whence ariseth the imperfection of sanctification in believers?

A. The imperfection of sanctification in believers ariseth from the remnants of sin abiding in every part of them, and the perpetual lustings of the flesh against the spirit; whereby they are often foiled with temptations, and fall into many sins,[^fnref:wlc1] are hindered in all their spiritual services,[^fnref:wlc2] and their best works are imperfect and defiled in the sight of God.[^fnref:wlc3]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 7:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45007018.01-1">For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my flesh. For I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out.</p> </div><h5>Romans 7:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45007023.01-2">but I see in my members another law waging war against the law of my mind and making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members.</p> </div><h5>Mark 14:66-72</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p41014066.04-3">And as Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest came, and seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, &#8220;You also were with the Nazarene, Jesus.&#8221; But he denied it, saying, &#8220;I neither know nor understand what you mean.&#8221; And he went out into the gateway and the rooster crowed. And the servant girl saw him and began again to say to the bystanders, &#8220;This man is one of them.&#8221; But again he denied it. And after a little while the bystanders again said to Peter, &#8220;Certainly you are one of them, for you are a Galilean.&#8221; But he began to invoke a curse on himself and to swear, &#8220;I do not know this man of whom you speak.&#8221; And immediately the rooster crowed a second time. And Peter remembered how Jesus had said to him, <span class="woc">&#8220;Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times.&#8221;</span> And he broke down and wept.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 2:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p48002011.04-4">But when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face, because he stood condemned. For before certain men came from James, he was eating with the Gentiles; but when they came he drew back and separated himself, fearing the circumcision party.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 12:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p58012001.08-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v58012001-1">12:1&nbsp;</span>Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Isaiah 64:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23064006.01-1">We have all become like one who is unclean,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and all our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment.<br /> We all fade like a leaf,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and our iniquities, like the wind, take us away.</p> </div> </div><h5>Exodus 28:38</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02028038.01-2">It shall be on Aaron's forehead, and Aaron shall bear any guilt from the holy things that the people of Israel consecrate as their holy gifts. It shall regularly be on his forehead, that they may be accepted before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 5:16-18</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p48005016.05-3">But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

