---
pagetitle: Of saving faith, part 1
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/05/21/
prev_date: May 21
this_url: /westminster-daily/05/22/
short_date: "0522"
this_date: May 22
next_url: /westminster-daily/05/23/
next_date: May 23
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 14: Of Saving Faith

The grace of faith, whereby the elect are enabled to believe to the saving of their souls,[^fnref:wcf1] is the work of the Spirit of Christ in their hearts,[^fnref:wcf2] and is ordinarily wrought by the ministry of the Word,[^fnref:wcf3] by which also, and by the administration of the sacraments, and prayer, it is increased and strengthened.[^fnref:wcf4]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 10:39</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p58010039.01-1">But we are not of those who shrink back and are destroyed, but of those who have faith and preserve their souls.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Corinthians 4:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47004013.01-1">Since we have the same spirit of faith according to what has been written, &#8220;I believed, and so I spoke,&#8221; we also believe, and so we also speak,</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 1:17-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001017.01-2">that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of him, having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints, and what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his great might</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002008.01-3">For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 10:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45010014.01-1">How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching?</p> </div><h5>Romans 10:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45010017.01-2">So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Peter 2:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60002002.01-1">Like newborn infants, long for the pure spiritual milk, that by it you may grow up into salvation&#8212;</p> </div><h5>Acts 20:32</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44020032.01-2">And now I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified.</p> </div><h5>Romans 4:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45004011.01-3">He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that righteousness would be counted to them as well,</p> </div><h5>Luke 17:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p42017005.04-4">The apostles said to the Lord, &#8220;Increase our faith!&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Romans 1:16-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45001016.07-5">For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, &#8220;The righteous shall live by faith.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

