---
pagetitle: What is faith in Jesus Christ?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/05/22/
prev_date: May 22
this_url: /westminster-daily/05/23/
this_date: May 23
next_url: /westminster-daily/05/24/
next_date: May 24
---

#### Shorter Catechism

86. What is faith in Jesus Christ?

A. Faith in Jesus Christ is a saving grace,[^fnref:wsc1] whereby we receive and rest upon him alone for salvation, as he is offered to us in the gospel.[^fnref:wsc2]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 2:8-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002008.01-1">For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast.</p> </div><h5>Romans 4:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45004016.01-2">That is why it depends on faith, in order that the promise may rest on grace and be guaranteed to all his offspring&#8212;not only to the adherent of the law but also to the one who shares the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 20:30-31</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p43020030.06-1">Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book; but these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 2:15-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p class="same-paragraph" id="p48002015.04-2">We ourselves are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners; yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law but through faith in Jesus Christ, so we also have believed in Christ Jesus, in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law, because by works of the law no one will be justified.</p> </div><h5>Philippians 3:3-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50003003.01-3">For we are the circumcision, who worship by the Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus and put no confidence in the flesh&#8212; though I myself have reason for confidence in the flesh also. If anyone else thinks he has reason for confidence in the flesh, I have more: circumcised on the eighth day, of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; as to the law, a Pharisee; as to zeal, a persecutor of the church; as to righteousness under the law, blameless. But whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ. Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith&#8212; that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

72. What is justifying faith?

A. Justifying faith is a saving grace,[^fnref:wlc1] wrought in the heart of a sinner by the Spirit[^fnref:wlc2] and Word of God,[^fnref:wlc3] whereby he, being convinced of his sin and misery, and of the disability in himself and all other creatures to recover him out of his lost condition,[^fnref:wlc4] not only assenteth to the truth of the promise of the gospel,[^fnref:wlc5] but receiveth and resteth upon Christ and his righteousness, therein held forth, for pardon of sin,[^fnref:wlc6] and for the accepting and accounting of his person righteous in the sight of God for salvation.[^fnref:wlc7]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 10:39</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p58010039.01-1">But we are not of those who shrink back and are destroyed, but of those who have faith and preserve their souls.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Corinthians 4:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47004013.01-1">Since we have the same spirit of faith according to what has been written, &#8220;I believed, and so I spoke,&#8221; we also believe, and so we also speak,</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 1:17-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001017.01-2">that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of him, having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints, and what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his great might</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 12:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46012003.01-3">Therefore I want you to understand that no one speaking in the Spirit of God ever says &#8220;Jesus is accursed!&#8221; and no one can say &#8220;Jesus is Lord&#8221; except in the Holy Spirit.</p> </div><h5>1 Peter 1:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60001002.01-4">according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood:</p> <p id="p60001002.26-4">May grace and peace be multiplied to you.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 10:14-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45010014.01-1">How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it is written, &#8220;How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news!&#8221; But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, &#8220;Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us?&#8221; So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 1:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46001021.01-2">For since, in the wisdom of God, the world did not know God through wisdom, it pleased God through the folly of what we preach to save those who believe.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 2:37</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002037.01-1">Now when they heard this they were cut to the heart, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, &#8220;Brothers, what shall we do?&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Acts 16:30</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44016030.01-2">Then he brought them out and said, &#8220;Sirs, what must I do to be saved?&#8221;</p> </div><h5>John 16:8-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43016008.01-3"><span class="woc">And when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment:</span> <span class="woc">concerning sin, because they do not believe in me;</span></p> </div><h5>Romans 6:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006006.01-4">We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p49002001.05-5"><span class="chapter-num" id="v49002001-5">2:1&nbsp;</span>And you were dead in the trespasses and sins</p> </div><h5>Acts 4:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44004012.01-6">And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 1:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001013.01-1">In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit,</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 11:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58011013.01-2">These all died in faith, not having received the things promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar, and having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc6]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 1:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43001012.01-1">But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God,</p> </div><h5>Acts 16:31</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44016031.01-2">And they said, &#8220;Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your household.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Acts 10:43</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44010043.01-3">To him all the prophets bear witness that everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins through his name.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Zechariah 3:8-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p38003008.01-4">Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, you and your friends who sit before you, for they are men who are a sign: behold, I will bring my servant the Branch. For behold, on the stone that I have set before Joshua, on a single stone with seven eyes, I will engrave its inscription, declares the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity of this land in a single day.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc7]: <div class="esv"><h5>Philippians 3:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50003009.01-1">and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith&#8212;</p> </div><h5>Acts 15:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44015011.01-2">But we believe that we will be saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus, just as they will.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

