---
pagetitle: Of saving faith, part 2
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/05/23/
prev_date: May 23
this_url: /westminster-daily/05/24/
short_date: "0524"
this_date: May 24
next_url: /westminster-daily/05/25/
next_date: May 25
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 14: Of Saving Faith

<span class="q">2.</span> By this faith, a Christian believeth to be true whatsoever is revealed in the Word, for the authority of God himself speaking therein;[^fnref:wcf1] and acteth differently upon that which each particular passage thereof containeth; yielding obedience to the commands,[^fnref:wcf2] trembling at the threatenings,[^fnref:wcf3] and embracing the promises of God for this life, and that which is to come.[^fnref:wcf4] But the principal acts of saving faith are accepting, receiving, and resting upon Christ alone for justification, sanctification, and eternal life, by virtue of the covenant of grace.[^fnref:wcf5]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 4:42</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43004042.01-1">They said to the woman, &#8220;It is no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves, and we know that this is indeed the Savior of the world.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>1 Thessalonians 2:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p52002013.01-2">And we also thank God constantly for this, that when you received the word of God, which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men but as what it really is, the word of God, which is at work in you believers.</p> </div><h5>1 John 5:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62005010.01-3">Whoever believes in the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God has borne concerning his Son.</p> </div><h5>Acts 24:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44024014.01-4">But this I confess to you, that according to the Way, which they call a sect, I worship the God of our fathers, believing everything laid down by the Law and written in the Prophets,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 16:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45016026.01-1">but has now been disclosed and through the prophetic writings has been made known to all nations, according to the command of the eternal God, to bring about the obedience of faith&#8212;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Isaiah 66:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23066002.01-1">All these things my hand has made,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and so all these things came to be,<br /> <span class="declares-line"></span> declares the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.<br /> But this is the one to whom I will look:<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he who is humble and contrite in spirit<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and trembles at my word.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 11:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58011013.01-1">These all died in faith, not having received the things promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar, and having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth.</p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 4:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54004008.01-2">for while bodily training is of some value, godliness is of value in every way, as it holds promise for the present life and also for the life to come.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf5]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 1:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43001012.01-1">But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God,</p> </div><h5>Acts 16:31</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44016031.01-2">And they said, &#8220;Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your household.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Galatians 2:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48002020.01-3">I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.</p> </div><h5>Acts 15:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44015011.01-4">But we believe that we will be saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus, just as they will.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

