---
pagetitle: Of saving faith, part 3
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/05/25/
prev_date: May 25
this_url: /westminster-daily/05/26/
short_date: "0526"
this_date: May 26
next_url: /westminster-daily/05/27/
next_date: May 27
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 14: Of Saving Faith

<span class="q">Q 3.</span> This faith is different in degrees, weak or strong;[^fnref:wcf1] may be often and many ways assailed, and weakened, but gets the victory:[^fnref:wcf2] growing up in many to the attainment of a full assurance, through Christ,[^fnref:wcf3] who is both the author and finisher of our faith.[^fnref:wcf4]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 5:13-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58005013.01-1">for everyone who lives on milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness, since he is a child. But solid food is for the mature, for those who have their powers of discernment trained by constant practice to distinguish good from evil.</p> </div><h5>Romans 4:19-20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45004019.01-2">He did not weaken in faith when he considered his own body, which was as good as dead (since he was about a hundred years old), or when he considered the barrenness of Sarah's womb. No distrust made him waver concerning the promise of God, but he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God,</p> </div><h5>Matthew 6:30</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40006030.01-3"><span class="woc">But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith?</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 8:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40008010.01-4">When Jesus heard this, he marveled and said to those who followed him, <span class="woc">&#8220;Truly, I tell you, with no one in Israel have I found such faith.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Luke 22:31-32</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p42022031.05-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;Simon, Simon, behold, Satan demanded to have you, that he might sift you like wheat,</span> <span class="woc">but I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned again, strengthen your brothers.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Ephesians 6:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49006016.01-2">In all circumstances take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one;</p> </div><h5>1 John 5:4-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62005004.01-3">For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the world&#8212;our faith. Who is it that overcomes the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 6:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58006011.01-1">And we desire each one of you to show the same earnestness to have the full assurance of hope until the end, so that you may not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 10:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58010022.01-2">let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 12:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58012002.01-1">looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

