---
pagetitle: How doth Christ execute the office of a priest?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/04/01/
prev_date: Apr 1
this_url: /westminster-daily/04/02/
this_date: Apr 2
next_url: /westminster-daily/04/03/
next_date: Apr 3
---

#### Shorter Catechism

25. How doth Christ execute the office of a priest?

A. Christ executeth the office of a priest, in his once offering up of himself a sacrifice to satisfy divine justice,[^fnref:wsc1] and reconcile us to God,[^fnref:wsc2] and in making continual intercession for us.[^fnref:wsc3]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Isaiah 53</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23053001.01-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v23053001-1">53:1&nbsp;</span>Who has believed what he has heard from us?<br /> <span class="indent"></span>And to whom has the arm of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> been revealed?<br />  For he grew up before him like a young plant,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and like a root out of dry ground;<br /> he had no form or majesty that we should look at him,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and no beauty that we should desire him.<br />  He was despised and rejected by men;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief;<br /> and as one from whom men hide their faces<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he was despised, and we esteemed him not.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p23053004.01-1">Surely he has borne our griefs<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and carried our sorrows;<br /> yet we esteemed him stricken,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>smitten by God, and afflicted.<br />  But he was wounded for our transgressions;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he was crushed for our iniquities;<br /> upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and with his stripes we are healed.<br />  All we like sheep have gone astray;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>we have turned&#8212;every one&#8212;to his own way;<br /> and the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> has laid on him<br /> <span class="indent"></span>the iniquity of us all.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p23053007.01-1">He was oppressed, and he was afflicted,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>yet he opened not his mouth;<br /> like a lamb that is led to the slaughter,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and like a sheep that before its shearers is silent,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>so he opened not his mouth.<br />  By oppression and judgment he was taken away;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and as for his generation, who considered<br /> that he was cut off out of the land of the living,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>stricken for the transgression of my people?<br />  And they made his grave with the wicked<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and with a rich man in his death,<br /> although he had done no violence,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and there was no deceit in his mouth.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p23053010.01-1">Yet it was the will of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> to crush him;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he has put him to grief;<br /> when his soul makes an offering for guilt,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he shall see his offspring; he shall prolong his days;<br /> the will of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> shall prosper in his hand.<br />  Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied;<br /> by his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>make many to be accounted righteous,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and he shall bear their iniquities.<br />  Therefore I will divide him a portion with the many,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and he shall divide the spoil with the strong,<br /> because he poured out his soul to death<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and was numbered with the transgressors;<br /> yet he bore the sin of many,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and makes intercession for the transgressors.</p> </div> </div><h5>Acts 8:32-35</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44008032.01-2">Now the passage of the Scripture that he was reading was this:</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p44008032.13-2">&#8220;Like a sheep he was led to the slaughter<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and like a lamb before its shearer is silent,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>so he opens not his mouth.<br />  In his humiliation justice was denied him.<br /> <span class="indent"></span>Who can describe his generation?<br /> For his life is taken away from the earth.&#8221;</p> </div>  <p class="same-paragraph" id="p44008034.01-2">And the eunuch said to Philip, &#8220;About whom, I ask you, does the prophet say this, about himself or about someone else?&#8221; Then Philip opened his mouth, and beginning with this Scripture he told him the good news about Jesus.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 9:26-28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58009026.01-3">for then he would have had to suffer repeatedly since the foundation of the world. But as it is, he has appeared once for all at the end of the ages to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. And just as it is appointed for man to die once, and after that comes judgment, so Christ, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, not to deal with sin but to save those who are eagerly waiting for him.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 10:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58010012.01-4">But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 5:10-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45005010.01-1">For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life. More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 5:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47005018.01-2">All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation;</p> </div><h5>Colossians 1:21-22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51001021.01-3">And you, who once were alienated and hostile in mind, doing evil deeds, he has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death, in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 8:34</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008034.01-1">Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died&#8212;more than that, who was raised&#8212;who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 7:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58007025.01-2">Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 9:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58009024.01-3">For Christ has entered, not into holy places made with hands, which are copies of the true things, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

44. How doth Christ execute the office of a priest?

A. Christ executeth the office of a priest, in his once offering himself a sacrifice without spot to God,[^fnref:wlc1] to be a reconciliation for the sins of his people;[^fnref:wlc2] and in making continual intercession for them.[^fnref:wlc3]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 9:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58009014.01-1">how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 9:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58009028.01-2">so Christ, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, not to deal with sin but to save those who are eagerly waiting for him.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 10:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58010012.01-3">But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God,</p> </div><h5>Isaiah 53</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23053001.01-4"><span class="chapter-num" id="v23053001-4">53:1&nbsp;</span>Who has believed what he has heard from us?<br /> <span class="indent"></span>And to whom has the arm of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> been revealed?<br />  For he grew up before him like a young plant,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and like a root out of dry ground;<br /> he had no form or majesty that we should look at him,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and no beauty that we should desire him.<br />  He was despised and rejected by men;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief;<br /> and as one from whom men hide their faces<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he was despised, and we esteemed him not.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p23053004.01-4">Surely he has borne our griefs<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and carried our sorrows;<br /> yet we esteemed him stricken,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>smitten by God, and afflicted.<br />  But he was wounded for our transgressions;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he was crushed for our iniquities;<br /> upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and with his stripes we are healed.<br />  All we like sheep have gone astray;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>we have turned&#8212;every one&#8212;to his own way;<br /> and the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> has laid on him<br /> <span class="indent"></span>the iniquity of us all.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p23053007.01-4">He was oppressed, and he was afflicted,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>yet he opened not his mouth;<br /> like a lamb that is led to the slaughter,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and like a sheep that before its shearers is silent,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>so he opened not his mouth.<br />  By oppression and judgment he was taken away;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and as for his generation, who considered<br /> that he was cut off out of the land of the living,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>stricken for the transgression of my people?<br />  And they made his grave with the wicked<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and with a rich man in his death,<br /> although he had done no violence,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and there was no deceit in his mouth.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p23053010.01-4">Yet it was the will of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> to crush him;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he has put him to grief;<br /> when his soul makes an offering for guilt,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he shall see his offspring; he shall prolong his days;<br /> the will of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> shall prosper in his hand.<br />  Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied;<br /> by his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>make many to be accounted righteous,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and he shall bear their iniquities.<br />  Therefore I will divide him a portion with the many,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and he shall divide the spoil with the strong,<br /> because he poured out his soul to death<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and was numbered with the transgressors;<br /> yet he bore the sin of many,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and makes intercession for the transgressors.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 2:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58002017.01-1">Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 5:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47005018.01-2">All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation;</p> </div><h5>Colossians 1:21-22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51001021.01-3">And you, who once were alienated and hostile in mind, doing evil deeds, he has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death, in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 7:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58007025.01-1">Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 9:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58009024.01-2">For Christ has entered, not into holy places made with hands, which are copies of the true things, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

