---
pagetitle: How did Christ humble himself in his death?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/04/06/
prev_date: Apr 6
this_url: /westminster-daily/04/07/
this_date: Apr 7
next_url: /westminster-daily/04/08/
next_date: Apr 8
---

#### Larger Catechism

49. How did Christ humble himself in his death?

A. Christ humbled himself in his death, in that having been betrayed by Judas,[^fnref:wlc1] forsaken by his disciples,[^fnref:wlc2] scorned and rejected by the world,[^fnref:wlc3] condemned by Pilate, and tormented by his persecutors;[^fnref:wlc4] having also conflicted with the terrors of death, and the powers of darkness, felt and borne the weight of God's wrath,[^fnref:wlc5] he laid down his life an offering for sin,[^fnref:wlc6] enduring the painful, shameful, and cursed death of the cross.[^fnref:wlc7]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 27:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40027004.01-1">saying, &#8220;I have sinned by betraying innocent blood.&#8221; They said, &#8220;What is that to us? See to it yourself.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 26:56</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40026056.01-1"><span class="woc">But all this has taken place that the Scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled.&#8221;</span> Then all the disciples left him and fled.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Isaiah 53:2-3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23053002.01-1">For he grew up before him like a young plant,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and like a root out of dry ground;<br /> he had no form or majesty that we should look at him,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and no beauty that we should desire him.<br />  He was despised and rejected by men;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief;<br /> and as one from whom men hide their faces<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he was despised, and we esteemed him not.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 27:26-50</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40027026.01-1">Then he released for them Barabbas, and having scourged Jesus, delivered him to be crucified.</p>   <p id="p40027027.04-1">Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the governor's headquarters, and they gathered the whole battalion before him. And they stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him, and twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on his head and put a reed in his right hand. And kneeling before him, they mocked him, saying, &#8220;Hail, King of the Jews!&#8221; And they spit on him and took the reed and struck him on the head. And when they had mocked him, they stripped him of the robe and put his own clothes on him and led him away to crucify him.</p>   <p id="p40027032.03-1">As they went out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name. They compelled this man to carry his cross. And when they came to a place called Golgotha (which means Place of a Skull), they offered him wine to drink, mixed with gall, but when he tasted it, he would not drink it. And when they had crucified him, they divided his garments among them by casting lots. Then they sat down and kept watch over him there. And over his head they put the charge against him, which read, &#8220;This is Jesus, the King of the Jews.&#8221; Then two robbers were crucified with him, one on the right and one on the left. And those who passed by derided him, wagging their heads and saying, &#8220;You who would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save yourself! If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross.&#8221; So also the chief priests, with the scribes and elders, mocked him, saying, &#8220;He saved others; he cannot save himself. He is the King of Israel; let him come down now from the cross, and we will believe in him. He trusts in God; let God deliver him now, if he desires him. For he said, &#8216;I am the Son of God.&#8217;&#8221; And the robbers who were crucified with him also reviled him in the same way.</p>   <p id="p40027045.05-1">Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour. And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;Eli, Eli, lema sabachthani?&#8221;</span> that is, <span class="woc">&#8220;My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?&#8221;</span> And some of the bystanders, hearing it, said, &#8220;This man is calling Elijah.&#8221; And one of them at once ran and took a sponge, filled it with sour wine, and put it on a reed and gave it to him to drink. But the others said, &#8220;Wait, let us see whether Elijah will come to save him.&#8221; And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice and yielded up his spirit.</p> </div><h5>John 19:34</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43019034.01-2">But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and at once there came out blood and water.</p> </div><h5>Luke 22:63-64</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p42022063.04-3">Now the men who were holding Jesus in custody were mocking him as they beat him. They also blindfolded him and kept asking him, &#8220;Prophesy! Who is it that struck you?&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Luke 22:44</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42022044.01-1">And being in an agony he prayed more earnestly; and his sweat became like great drops of blood falling down to the ground.</p> </div><h5>Matthew 27:46</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40027046.01-2">And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;Eli, Eli, lema sabachthani?&#8221;</span> that is, <span class="woc">&#8220;My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc6]: <div class="esv"><h5>Isaiah 53:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23053010.01-1">Yet it was the will of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> to crush him;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he has put him to grief;<br /> when his soul makes an offering for guilt,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he shall see his offspring; he shall prolong his days;<br /> the will of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> shall prosper in his hand.</p> </div> </div><h5>Matthew 20:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40020028.01-2"><span class="woc">even as the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Mark 10:45</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p41010045.01-3"><span class="woc">For even the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc7]: <div class="esv"><h5>Philippians 2:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50002008.01-1">And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 12:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58012002.01-2">looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 3:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48003013.01-3">Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us&#8212;for it is written, &#8220;Cursed is everyone who is hanged on a tree&#8221;&#8212;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

