---
pagetitle: Of Christ the mediator, part 8
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/04/16/
prev_date: Apr 16
this_url: /westminster-daily/04/17/
this_date: Apr 17
next_url: /westminster-daily/04/18/
next_date: Apr 18
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 8: Of Christ the Mediator

8\. To all those for whom Christ hath purchased redemption, he doth certainly and effectually apply and communicate the same;[^fnref:wcf1] making intercession for them,[^fnref:wcf2] and revealing unto them, in and by the Word, the mysteries of salvation;[^fnref:wcf3] effectually persuading them by his Spirit to believe and obey, and governing their hearts by his Word and Spirit;[^fnref:wcf4] overcoming all their enemies by his almighty power and wisdom, in such manner, and ways, as are most consonant to his wonderful and unsearchable dispensation.[^fnref:wcf5]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 6:37</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43006037.01-1"><span class="woc">All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out.</span></p> </div><h5>John 6:39</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43006039.01-2"><span class="woc">And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day.</span></p> </div><h5>John 10:15-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43010015.01-3"><span class="woc">just as the Father knows me and I know the Father; and I lay down my life for the sheep.</span> <span class="woc">And I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock, one shepherd.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 John 2:1-2</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p62002001.04-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v62002001-1">2:1&nbsp;</span>My little children, I am writing these things to you so that you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. He is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only but also for the sins of the whole world.</p> </div><h5>Romans 8:34</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008034.01-2">Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died&#8212;more than that, who was raised&#8212;who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 15:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43015013.01-1"><span class="woc">Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends.</span></p> </div><h5>John 15:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43015015.01-2"><span class="woc">No longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing; but I have called you friends, for all that I have heard from my Father I have made known to you.</span></p> </div><h5>Ephesians 1:7-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001007.01-3">In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us, in all wisdom and insight making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ</p> </div><h5>John 17:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43017006.01-4"><span class="woc">&#8220;I have manifested your name to the people whom you gave me out of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 14:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43014016.01-1"><span class="woc">And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you forever,</span></p> </div><h5>Hebrews 12:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58012002.01-2">looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 4:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47004013.01-3">Since we have the same spirit of faith according to what has been written, &#8220;I believed, and so I spoke,&#8221; we also believe, and so we also speak,</p> </div><h5>Romans 8:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008009.01-4">You, however, are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him.</p> </div><h5>Romans 8:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008014.01-5">For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God.</p> </div><h5>Romans 15:18-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45015018.01-6">For I will not venture to speak of anything except what Christ has accomplished through me to bring the Gentiles to obedience&#8212;by word and deed, by the power of signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God&#8212;so that from Jerusalem and all the way around to Illyricum I have fulfilled the ministry of the gospel of Christ;</p> </div><h5>John 17:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43017017.01-7"><span class="woc">Sanctify them in the truth; your word is truth.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 110:1</h5> <div class="esv-text">  <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19110001.10-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v19110001-1">110:1&nbsp;</span>The <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> says to my Lord:<br /> <span class="indent"></span>&#8220;Sit at my right hand,<br /> until I make your enemies your footstool.&#8221;</p> </div> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 15:25-26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46015025.01-2">For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death.</p> </div><h5>Malachi 4:2-3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p39004002.01-3">But for you who fear my name, the sun of righteousness shall rise with healing in its wings. You shall go out leaping like calves from the stall. And you shall tread down the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet, on the day when I act, says the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> of hosts.</p> </div><h5>Colossians 2:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51002015.01-4">He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame, by triumphing over them in him.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

