---
pagetitle: What benefits hath Christ procured by his mediation?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/04/17/
prev_date: Apr 17
this_url: /westminster-daily/04/18/
short_date: "0418"
this_date: Apr 18
next_url: /westminster-daily/04/19/
next_date: Apr 19
---

#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">Q 57.</span> What benefits hath Christ procured by his mediation?

<span class="q">A.</span> Christ, by his mediation, hath procured redemption,[^fnref:wlc1] with all other benefits of the covenant of grace.[^fnref:wlc2]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Timothy 2:5-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54002005.01-1">For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all, which is the testimony given at the proper time.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 9:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58009012.01-2">he entered once for all into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 1:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001007.01-3">In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Corinthians 1:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47001020.01-1">For all the promises of God find their Yes in him. That is why it is through him that we utter our Amen to God for his glory.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 1:3-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p49001003.05-2">Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love he predestined us for adoption as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has blessed us in the Beloved.</p> </div><h5>2 Peter 1:3-4</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p61001003.07-3">His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence, by which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

