---
pagetitle: Of free will, part 3
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/04/20/
prev_date: Apr 20
this_url: /westminster-daily/04/21/
short_date: "0421"
this_date: Apr 21
next_url: /westminster-daily/04/22/
next_date: Apr 22
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 9: Of Free Will

3\. Man, by his fall into a state of sin, hath wholly lost all ability of will to any spiritual good accompanying salvation:[^fnref:wcf1] so as, a natural man, being altogether averse from that good,[^fnref:wcf2] and dead in sin,[^fnref:wcf3] is not able, by his own strength, to convert himself, or to prepare himself thereunto.[^fnref:wcf4]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 5:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45005006.01-1">For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly.</p> </div><h5>Romans 8:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008007.01-2">For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law; indeed, it cannot.</p> </div><h5>John 15:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43015005.01-3"><span class="woc">I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 3:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45003010.01-1">as it is written:</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p45003010.05-1">&#8220;None is righteous, no, not one;</p> </div> </div><h5>Romans 3:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p45003012.01-2">All have turned aside; together they have become worthless;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>no one does good,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>not even one.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 2:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p49002001.05-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v49002001-1">2:1&nbsp;</span>And you were dead in the trespasses and sins</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002005.01-2">even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ&#8212;by grace you have been saved&#8212;</p> </div><h5>Colossians 2:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51002013.01-3">And you, who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 6:44</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43006044.01-1"><span class="woc">No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last day.</span></p> </div><h5>John 6:65</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43006065.01-2">And he said, <span class="woc">&#8220;This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:2-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002002.01-3">in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience&#8212; among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ&#8212;by grace you have been saved&#8212;</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 2:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46002014.01-4">The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned.</p> </div><h5>Titus 3:3-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56003003.01-5">For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others and hating one another. But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

