---
pagetitle: How are we made partakers of the redemption purchased by Christ?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/04/24/
prev_date: Apr 24
this_url: /westminster-daily/04/25/
short_date: "0425"
this_date: Apr 25
next_url: /westminster-daily/04/26/
next_date: Apr 26
---

#### Shorter Catechism

<span class="q">Q 29.</span> How are we made partakers of the redemption purchased by Christ?

<span class="q">A.</span> We are made partakers of the redemption purchased by Christ, by the effectual application of it to us by his Holy Spirit.[^fnref:wsc1]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Titus 3:4-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56003004.01-1">But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that being justified by his grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">Q 58.</span> How do we come to be made partakers of the benefits which Christ hath procured?

<span class="q">A.</span> We are made partakers of the benefits which Christ hath procured, by the application of them unto us,[^fnref:wlc1] which is the work especially of God the Holy Ghost.[^fnref:wlc2]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 1:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43001011.01-1">He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Titus 3:4-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56003004.01-1">But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that being justified by his grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life.</p> </div><h5>John 16:14-15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43016014.01-2"><span class="woc">He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you.</span> <span class="woc">All that the Father has is mine; therefore I said that he will take what is mine and declare it to you.</span></p> </div><h5>John 3:3-8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43003003.01-3">Jesus answered him, <span class="woc">&#8220;Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again he cannot see the kingdom of God.&#8221;</span> Nicodemus said to him, &#8220;How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born?&#8221; Jesus answered, <span class="woc">&#8220;Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God.</span> <span class="woc">That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.</span> <span class="woc">Do not marvel that I said to you, &#8216;You must be born again.&#8217;</span> <span class="woc">The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

