---
pagetitle: How doth the Spirit apply to us the redemption purchased by Christ?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/04/25/
prev_date: Apr 25
this_url: /westminster-daily/04/26/
short_date: "0426"
this_date: Apr 26
next_url: /westminster-daily/04/27/
next_date: Apr 27
---

#### Shorter Catechism

30\. How doth the Spirit apply to us the redemption purchased by Christ?

A. The Spirit applieth to us the redemption purchased by Christ, by working faith in us,[^fnref:wsc1] and thereby uniting us to Christ in our effectual calling.[^fnref:wsc2]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 10:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45010017.01-1">So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 2:12-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46002012.01-2">Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might understand the things freely given us by God. And we impart this in words not taught by human wisdom but taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual truths to those who are spiritual.</p>  <p id="p46002014.01-2">The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. The spiritual person judges all things, but is himself to be judged by no one. &#8220;For who has understood the mind of the Lord so as to instruct him?&#8221; But we have the mind of Christ.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002008.01-3">For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God,</p> </div><h5>Philippians 1:29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50001029.01-4">For it has been granted to you that for the sake of Christ you should not only believe in him but also suffer for his sake,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 15:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43015005.01-1"><span class="woc">I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing.</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 1:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46001009.01-2">God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 3:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49003017.01-3">so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith&#8212;that you, being rooted and grounded in love,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

59\. Who are made partakers of redemption through Christ?

A. Redemption is certainly applied, and effectually communicated, to all those for whom Christ hath purchased it;[^fnref:wlc1] who are in time by the Holy Ghost enabled to believe in Christ according to the gospel.[^fnref:wlc2]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 1:13-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001013.01-1">In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory.</p> </div><h5>John 6:37</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43006037.01-2"><span class="woc">All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out.</span></p> </div><h5>John 6:39</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43006039.01-3"><span class="woc">And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day.</span></p> </div><h5>John 10:15-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43010015.01-4"><span class="woc">just as the Father knows me and I know the Father; and I lay down my life for the sheep.</span> <span class="woc">And I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock, one shepherd.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 10:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45010017.01-1">So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 2:12-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46002012.01-2">Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might understand the things freely given us by God. And we impart this in words not taught by human wisdom but taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual truths to those who are spiritual.</p>  <p id="p46002014.01-2">The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. The spiritual person judges all things, but is himself to be judged by no one. &#8220;For who has understood the mind of the Lord so as to instruct him?&#8221; But we have the mind of Christ.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002008.01-3">For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God,</p> </div><h5>Romans 8:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008009.01-4">You, however, are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him.</p> </div><h5>Romans 8:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008014.01-5">For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

