---
pagetitle: Of effectual calling, part 1
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/04/26/
prev_date: Apr 26
this_url: /westminster-daily/04/27/
short_date: "0427"
this_date: Apr 27
next_url: /westminster-daily/04/28/
next_date: Apr 28
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 10: Of Effectual Calling

1\. All those whom God hath predestinated unto life, and those only, he is pleased, in his appointed and accepted time, effectually to call,[^fnref:wcf1] by his Word and Spirit,[^fnref:wcf2] out of that state of sin and death, in which they are by nature, to grace and salvation, by Jesus Christ;[^fnref:wcf3] enlightening their minds spiritually and savingly to understand the things of God,[^fnref:wcf4] taking away their heart of stone, and giving unto them a heart of flesh;[^fnref:wcf5] renewing their wills, and, by his almighty power, determining them to that which is good,[^fnref:wcf6] and effectually drawing them to Jesus Christ:[^fnref:wcf7] yet so, as they come most freely, being made willing by his grace.[^fnref:wcf8]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 8:30</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008030.01-1">And those whom he predestined he also called, and those whom he called he also justified, and those whom he justified he also glorified.</p> </div><h5>Romans 11:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45011007.01-2">What then? Israel failed to obtain what it was seeking. The elect obtained it, but the rest were hardened,</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 1:10-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001010.01-3">as a plan for the fullness of time, to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth.</p>  <p id="p49001011.01-3">In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Thessalonians 2:13-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p53002013.03-1">But we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the firstfruits to be saved, through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth. To this he called you through our gospel, so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 3:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47003003.01-2">And you show that you are a letter from Christ delivered by us, written not with ink but with the Spirit of the living God, not on tablets of stone but on tablets of human hearts.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 3:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47003006.01-3">who has made us competent to be ministers of a new covenant, not of the letter but of the Spirit. For the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 8:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008002.01-1">For the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:1-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p49002001.05-2"><span class="chapter-num" id="v49002001-2">2:1&nbsp;</span>And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience&#8212; among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ&#8212;by grace you have been saved&#8212;</p> </div><h5>2 Timothy 1:9-10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p55001009.01-3">who saved us and called us to a holy calling, not because of our works but because of his own purpose and grace, which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began, and which now has been manifested through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 26:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44026018.01-1"><span class="woc">to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me.&#8217;</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 2:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p46002010.01-2">these things God has revealed to us through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 2:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46002012.01-3">Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might understand the things freely given us by God.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 1:17-18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001017.01-4">that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of him, having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ezekiel 36:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26036026.01-1">And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf6]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ezekiel 11:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26011019.01-1">And I will give them one heart, and a new spirit I will put within them. I will remove the heart of stone from their flesh and give them a heart of flesh,</p> </div><h5>Philippians 2:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50002013.01-2">for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure.</p> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 30:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05030006.01-3">And the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your offspring, so that you will love the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God with all your heart and with all your soul, that you may live.</p> </div><h5>Ezekiel 36:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26036027.01-4">And I will put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf7]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 1:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001019.01-1">and what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his great might</p> </div><h5>John 6:44-45</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43006044.01-2"><span class="woc">No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last day.</span> <span class="woc">It is written in the Prophets, &#8216;And they will all be taught by God.&#8217; Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me&#8212;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf8]: <div class="esv"><h5>Song of Solomon 1:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p22001004.01-1">Draw me after you; let us run.<br /> <span class="indent"></span>The king has brought me into his chambers.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p22001004.17-1">We will exult and rejoice in you;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>we will extol your love more than wine;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>rightly do they love you.</p> </div> </div><h5>Psalm 110:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19110003.01-2">Your people will offer themselves freely<br /> <span class="indent"></span>on the day of your power,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>in holy garments;<br /> from the womb of the morning,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>the dew of your youth will be yours.</p> </div> </div><h5>John 6:37</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43006037.01-3"><span class="woc">All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out.</span></p> </div><h5>Romans 6:16-18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006016.01-4">Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness? But thanks be to God, that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed, and, having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

