---
pagetitle: What is effectual calling?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/04/27/
prev_date: Apr 27
this_url: /westminster-daily/04/28/
short_date: "0428"
this_date: Apr 28
next_url: /westminster-daily/04/29/
next_date: Apr 29
---

#### Shorter Catechism

<span class="q">Q 31.</span> What is effectual calling?

<span class="q">A.</span> Effectual calling is the work of God's Spirit, whereby, convincing us of our sin and misery, enlightening our minds in the knowledge of Christ,[^fnref:wsc1] and renewing our wills,[^fnref:wsc2] he doth persuade and enable us to embrace Jesus Christ,[^fnref:wsc3] freely offered to us in the gospel.[^fnref:wsc4]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 26:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44026018.01-1"><span class="woc">to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me.&#8217;</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 2:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p46002010.01-2">these things God has revealed to us through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 2:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46002012.01-3">Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might understand the things freely given us by God.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 4:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47004006.01-4">For God, who said, &#8220;Let light shine out of darkness,&#8221; has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 1:17-18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001017.01-5">that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of him, having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 30:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05030006.01-1">And the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your offspring, so that you will love the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God with all your heart and with all your soul, that you may live.</p> </div><h5>Ezekiel 36:26-27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26036026.01-2">And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules.</p> </div><h5>John 3:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43003005.01-3">Jesus answered, <span class="woc">&#8220;Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God.</span></p> </div><h5>Titus 3:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56003005.01-4">he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 6:44-45</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43006044.01-1"><span class="woc">No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last day.</span> <span class="woc">It is written in the Prophets, &#8216;And they will all be taught by God.&#8217; Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me&#8212;</span></p> </div><h5>Acts 16:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44016014.01-2">One who heard us was a woman named Lydia, from the city of Thyatira, a seller of purple goods, who was a worshiper of God. The Lord opened her heart to pay attention to what was said by Paul.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Isaiah 45:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23045022.01-1">&#8220;Turn to me and be saved,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>all the ends of the earth!<br /> <span class="indent"></span>For I am God, and there is no other.</p> </div> </div><h5>Matthew 11:28-30</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40011028.01-2"><span class="woc">Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.</span> <span class="woc">Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls.</span> <span class="woc">For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Revelation 22:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66022017.01-3">The Spirit and the Bride say, &#8220;Come.&#8221; And let the one who hears say, &#8220;Come.&#8221; And let the one who is thirsty come; let the one who desires take the water of life without price.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">Q 67.</span> What is effectual calling?

<span class="q">A.</span> Effectual calling is the work of God's almighty power and grace,[^fnref:wlc1] whereby (out of his free and special love to his elect, and from nothing in them moving him thereunto[^fnref:wlc2]) he doth, in his accepted time, invite and draw them to Jesus Christ, by his Word and Spirit;[^fnref:wlc3] savingly enlightening their minds,[^fnref:wlc4] renewing and powerfully determining their wills,[^fnref:wlc5] so as they (although in themselves dead in sin) are hereby made willing and able freely to answer his call, and to accept and embrace the grace offered and conveyed therein.[^fnref:wlc6]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ezekiel 37:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26037009.01-1">Then he said to me, &#8220;Prophesy to the breath; prophesy, son of man, and say to the breath, Thus says the Lord <span class="small-caps">God</span>: Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe on these slain, that they may live.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Ezekiel 37:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26037014.01-2">And I will put my Spirit within you, and you shall live, and I will place you in your own land. Then you shall know that I am the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>; I have spoken, and I will do it, declares the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>John 5:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43005025.01-3"><span class="woc">&#8220;Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming, and is now here, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live.</span></p> </div><h5>Ephesians 1:18-20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001018.01-4">having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints, and what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his great might that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places,</p> </div><h5>2 Timothy 1:8-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p55001008.01-5">Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord, nor of me his prisoner, but share in suffering for the gospel by the power of God, who saved us and called us to a holy calling, not because of our works but because of his own purpose and grace, which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Titus 3:4-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56003004.01-1">But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit,</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:4-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002004.01-2">But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ&#8212;by grace you have been saved&#8212;</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:7-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002007.01-3">so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast.</p> </div><h5>Romans 9:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45009011.01-4">though they were not yet born and had done nothing either good or bad&#8212;in order that God's purpose of election might continue, not because of works but because of him who calls&#8212;</p> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 9:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05009005.01-5">Not because of your righteousness or the uprightness of your heart are you going in to possess their land, but because of the wickedness of these nations the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God is driving them out from before you, and that he may confirm the word that the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 3:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43003005.01-1">Jesus answered, <span class="woc">&#8220;Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God.</span></p> </div><h5>Titus 3:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56003005.01-2">he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit,</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 5:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47005020.01-3">Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, God making his appeal through us. We implore you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 6:1-2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47006001.01-4"><span class="chapter-num" id="v47006001-4">6:1&nbsp;</span>Working together with him, then, we appeal to you not to receive the grace of God in vain. For he says,</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p47006002.04-4">&#8220;In a favorable time I listened to you,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and in a day of salvation I have helped you.&#8221;</p> </div> <p class="same-paragraph" id="p47006002.22-4">Behold, now is the favorable time; behold, now is the day of salvation.</p> </div><h5>John 6:44-45</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43006044.01-5"><span class="woc">No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last day.</span> <span class="woc">It is written in the Prophets, &#8216;And they will all be taught by God.&#8217; Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me&#8212;</span></p> </div><h5>Acts 16:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44016014.01-6">One who heard us was a woman named Lydia, from the city of Thyatira, a seller of purple goods, who was a worshiper of God. The Lord opened her heart to pay attention to what was said by Paul.</p> </div><h5>2 Thessalonians 2:13-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p53002013.03-7">But we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the firstfruits to be saved, through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth. To this he called you through our gospel, so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 26:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44026018.01-1"><span class="woc">to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me.&#8217;</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 2:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p46002010.01-2">these things God has revealed to us through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 2:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46002012.01-3">Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might understand the things freely given us by God.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 4:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47004006.01-4">For God, who said, &#8220;Let light shine out of darkness,&#8221; has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 1:17-18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001017.01-5">that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of him, having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ezekiel 11:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26011019.01-1">And I will give them one heart, and a new spirit I will put within them. I will remove the heart of stone from their flesh and give them a heart of flesh,</p> </div><h5>Ezekiel 36:26-27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26036026.01-2">And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules.</p> </div><h5>John 6:45</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43006045.01-3"><span class="woc">It is written in the Prophets, &#8216;And they will all be taught by God.&#8217; Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me&#8212;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc6]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 2:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002005.01-1">even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ&#8212;by grace you have been saved&#8212;</p> </div><h5>Philippians 2:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50002013.01-2">for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure.</p> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 30:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05030006.01-3">And the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your offspring, so that you will love the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God with all your heart and with all your soul, that you may live.</p> </div><h5>Isaiah 45:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23045022.01-4">&#8220;Turn to me and be saved,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>all the ends of the earth!<br /> <span class="indent"></span>For I am God, and there is no other.</p> </div> </div><h5>Matthew 11:28-30</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40011028.01-5"><span class="woc">Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.</span> <span class="woc">Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls.</span> <span class="woc">For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Revelation 22:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66022017.01-6">The Spirit and the Bride say, &#8220;Come.&#8221; And let the one who hears say, &#8220;Come.&#8221; And let the one who is thirsty come; let the one who desires take the water of life without price.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

