---
pagetitle: Are the elect only effectually called?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/04/28/
prev_date: Apr 28
this_url: /westminster-daily/04/29/
short_date: "0429"
this_date: Apr 29
next_url: /westminster-daily/04/30/
next_date: Apr 30
---

#### Larger Catechism

68\. Are the elect only effectually called?

A. All the elect, and they only, are effectually called;[^fnref:wlc1] although others may be, and often are, outwardly called by the ministry of the Word,[^fnref:wlc2] and have some common operations of the Spirit;[^fnref:wlc3] who, for their willful neglect and contempt of the grace offered to them, being justly left in their unbelief, do never truly come to Jesus Christ.[^fnref:wlc4]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 13:48</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44013048.01-1">And when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord, and as many as were appointed to eternal life believed.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 22:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40022014.01-1"><span class="woc">For many are called, but few are chosen.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Acts 8:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44008013.01-2">Even Simon himself believed, and after being baptized he continued with Philip. And seeing signs and great miracles performed, he was amazed.</p> </div><h5>Acts 8:20-21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44008020.01-3">But Peter said to him, &#8220;May your silver perish with you, because you thought you could obtain the gift of God with money! You have neither part nor lot in this matter, for your heart is not right before God.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 7:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40007022.01-1"><span class="woc">On that day many will say to me, &#8216;Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in your name?&#8217;</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 13:20-21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40013020.01-2"><span class="woc">As for what was sown on rocky ground, this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy,</span> <span class="woc">yet he has no root in himself, but endures for a while, and when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately he falls away.</span></p> </div><h5>Hebrews 6:4-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58006004.01-3">For it is impossible, in the case of those who have once been enlightened, who have tasted the heavenly gift, and have shared in the Holy Spirit, and have tasted the goodness of the word of God and the powers of the age to come, and then have fallen away, to restore them again to repentance, since they are crucifying once again the Son of God to their own harm and holding him up to contempt.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 12:38-40</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43012038.01-1">so that the word spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled:</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p43012038.13-1">&#8220;Lord, who has believed what he heard from us,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?&#8221;</p> </div>  <p class="same-paragraph" id="p43012039.01-1">Therefore they could not believe. For again Isaiah said,</p>  <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p43012040.01-1">&#8220;He has blinded their eyes<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and hardened their heart,<br /> lest they see with their eyes,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and understand with their heart, and turn,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and I would heal them.&#8221;</p> </div> </div><h5>Acts 28:25-27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44028025.01-2">And disagreeing among themselves, they departed after Paul had made one statement: &#8220;The Holy Spirit was right in saying to your fathers through Isaiah the prophet:</p>  <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p44028026.01-2">&#8220;&#8216;Go to this people, and say,<br /> You will indeed hear but never understand,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and you will indeed see but never perceive.<br />  For this people's heart has grown dull,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and with their ears they can barely hear,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and their eyes they have closed;<br /> lest they should see with their eyes<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and hear with their ears<br /> and understand with their heart<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and turn, and I would heal them.&#8217;</p> </div> </div><h5>John 6:64-65</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43006064.01-3"><span class="woc">But there are some of you who do not believe.&#8221;</span> (For Jesus knew from the beginning who those were who did not believe, and who it was who would betray him.) And he said, <span class="woc">&#8220;This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Psalm 81:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19081011.01-4">&#8220;But my people did not listen to my voice;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>Israel would not submit to me.<br />  So I gave them over to their stubborn hearts,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to follow their own counsels.</p> </div> </div><h5>Hebrews 10:29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58010029.01-5">How much worse punishment, do you think, will be deserved by the one who has spurned the Son of God, and has profaned the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified, and has outraged the Spirit of grace?</p> </div><h5>1 John 2:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62002019.01-6">They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they would have continued with us. But they went out, that it might become plain that they all are not of us.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

