---
pagetitle: Of the holy Scripture, part 1
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/01/01/
prev_date: Jan 1
this_url: /westminster-daily/01/02/
this_date: Jan 2
next_url: /westminster-daily/01/03/
next_date: Jan 3
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 1: Of the Holy Scripture

1. Although the light of nature, and the works of creation and providence do so far manifest the goodness, wisdom, and power of God, as to leave men unexcusable;[^fnref:wcf1] yet are they not sufficient to give that knowledge of God, and of his will, which is necessary unto salvation.[^fnref:wcf2] Therefore it pleased the Lord, at sundry times, and in divers manners, to reveal himself, and to declare that his will unto his church;[^fnref:wcf3] and afterwards, for the better preserving and propagating of the truth, and for the more sure establishment and comfort of the church against the corruption of the flesh, and the malice of Satan and of the world, to commit the same wholly unto writing:[^fnref:wcf4] which maketh the Holy Scripture to be most necessary;[^fnref:wcf5] those former ways of God's revealing his will unto his people being now ceased.[^fnref:wcf6]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 2:14-15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45002014.01-1">For when Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do what the law requires, they are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law. They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse them</p> </div><h5>Romans 1:19-20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45001019.01-2">For what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them. For his invisible attributes, namely, his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived, ever since the creation of the world, in the things that have been made. So they are without excuse.</p> </div><h5>Psalm 19:1-3</h5> <div class="esv-text">  <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19019001.15-3"><span class="chapter-num" id="v19019001-3">19:1&nbsp;</span>The heavens declare the glory of God,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and the sky above proclaims his handiwork.<br />  Day to day pours out speech,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and night to night reveals knowledge.<br />  There is no speech, nor are there words,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>whose voice is not heard.</p> </div> </div><h5>Romans 1:32</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45001032.01-4">Though they know God's decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them but give approval to those who practice them.</p> </div><h5>Romans 2:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45002001.04-5"><span class="chapter-num" id="v45002001-5">2:1&nbsp;</span>Therefore you have no excuse, O man, every one of you who judges. For in passing judgment on another you condemn yourself, because you, the judge, practice the very same things.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 1:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46001021.01-1">For since, in the wisdom of God, the world did not know God through wisdom, it pleased God through the folly of what we preach to save those who believe.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 2:13-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46002013.01-2">And we impart this in words not taught by human wisdom but taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual truths to those who are spiritual.</p>  <p id="p46002014.01-2">The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 1:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p class="chapter-first" id="p58001001.06-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v58001001-1">1:1&nbsp;</span>Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Proverbs 22:19-21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20022019.01-1">That your trust may be in the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>I have made them known to you today, even to you.<br />  Have I not written for you thirty sayings<br /> <span class="indent"></span>of counsel and knowledge,<br />  to make you know what is right and true,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>that you may give a true answer to those who sent you?</p> </div> </div><h5>Luke 1:3-4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42001003.01-2">it seemed good to me also, having followed all things closely for some time past, to write an orderly account for you, most excellent Theophilus, that you may have certainty concerning the things you have been taught.</p> </div><h5>Romans 15:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45015004.01-3">For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope.</p> </div><h5>Matthew 4:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40004004.01-4">But he answered, <span class="woc">&#8220;It is written,</span></p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p40004004.07-4"><span class="woc">&#8220;&#8216;Man shall not live by bread alone,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>but by every word that comes from the mouth of God.&#8217;&#8221;</span></p> </div> </div><h5>Matthew 4:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p40004007.01-5">Jesus said to him, <span class="woc">&#8220;Again it is written, &#8216;You shall not put the Lord your God to the test.&#8217;&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 4:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40004010.01-6">Then Jesus said to him, <span class="woc">&#8220;Be gone, Satan! For it is written,</span></p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p40004010.13-6"><span class="woc">&#8220;&#8216;You shall worship the Lord your God<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and him only shall you serve.&#8217;&#8221;</span></p> </div> </div><h5>Isaiah 8:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p23008019.01-7">And when they say to you, &#8220;Inquire of the mediums and the necromancers who chirp and mutter,&#8221; should not a people inquire of their God? Should they inquire of the dead on behalf of the living?</p> </div><h5>Isaiah 8:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p23008020.01-8">To the teaching and to the testimony! If they will not speak according to this word, it is because they have no dawn.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf5]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Timothy 3:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p55003015.01-1">and how from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus.</p> </div><h5>2 Peter 1:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p61001019.01-2">And we have something more sure, the prophetic word, to which you will do well to pay attention as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf6]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 1:1-2</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p class="chapter-first" id="p58001001.06-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v58001001-1">1:1&nbsp;</span>Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets, but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

