---
pagetitle: Of the holy Scripture, part 5
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/01/07/
prev_date: Jan 7
this_url: /westminster-daily/01/08/
short_date: 0108
this_date: Jan 8
next_url: /westminster-daily/01/09/
next_date: Jan 9
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 1: Of the Holy Scripture

5\. We may be moved and induced by the testimony of the church to an high and reverent esteem of the Holy Scripture.[^fnref:wcf1] And the heavenliness of the matter, the efficacy of the doctrine, the majesty of the style, the consent of all the parts, the scope of the whole (which is, to give all glory to God), the full discovery it makes of the only way of man's salvation, the many other incomparable excellencies, and the entire perfection thereof, are arguments whereby it doth abundantly evidence itself to be the Word of God: yet notwithstanding, our full persuasion and assurance of the infallible truth and divine authority thereof, is from the inward work of the Holy Spirit bearing witness by and with the Word in our hearts.[^fnref:wcf2]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Timothy 3:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54003015.01-1">if I delay, you may know how one ought to behave in the household of God, which is the church of the living God, a pillar and buttress of the truth.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 John 2:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62002020.01-1">But you have been anointed by the Holy One, and you all have knowledge.</p> </div><h5>1 John 2:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62002027.01-2">But the anointing that you received from him abides in you, and you have no need that anyone should teach you. But as his anointing teaches you about everything, and is true, and is no lie&#8212;just as it has taught you, abide in him.</p> </div><h5>John 16:13-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43016013.01-3"><span class="woc">When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth, for he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come.</span> <span class="woc">He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you.</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 2:10-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p46002010.01-4">these things God has revealed to us through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God. For who knows a person's thoughts except the spirit of that person, which is in him? So also no one comprehends the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God. Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might understand the things freely given us by God.</p> </div><h5>Isaiah 59:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p23059021.01-5">&#8220;And as for me, this is my covenant with them,&#8221; says the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>: &#8220;My Spirit that is upon you, and my words that I have put in your mouth, shall not depart out of your mouth, or out of the mouth of your offspring, or out of the mouth of your children's offspring,&#8221; says the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, &#8220;from this time forth and forevermore.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

