---
pagetitle: How doth it appear that the Scriptures are the Word of God?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/01/08/
prev_date: Jan 8
this_url: /westminster-daily/01/09/
this_date: Jan 9
next_url: /westminster-daily/01/10/
next_date: Jan 10
---

#### Larger Catechism

4\. How doth it appear that the Scriptures are the Word of God?

A. The Scriptures manifest themselves to be the Word of God, by their majesty[^fnref:wlc1] and purity;[^fnref:wlc2] by the consent of all the parts,[^fnref:wlc3] and the scope of the whole, which is to give all glory to God;[^fnref:wlc4] by their light and power to convince and convert sinners, to comfort and build up believers unto salvation:[^fnref:wlc5] but the Spirit of God bearing witness by and with the Scriptures in the heart of man, is alone able fully to persuade it that they are the very Word of God.[^fnref:wlc6]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hosea 8:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p28008012.01-1">Were I to write for him my laws by the ten thousands,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>they would be regarded as a strange thing.</p> </div> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 2:6-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p46002006.05-2">Yet among the mature we do impart wisdom, although it is not a wisdom of this age or of the rulers of this age, who are doomed to pass away. But we impart a secret and hidden wisdom of God, which God decreed before the ages for our glory.</p> </div><h5>Psalm 119:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19119018.01-3">Open my eyes, that I may behold<br /> <span class="indent"></span>wondrous things out of your law.</p> </div> </div><h5>Psalm 119:129</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19119129.02-4">Your testimonies are wonderful;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>therefore my soul keeps them.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 12:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19012006.01-1">The words of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> are pure words,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>like silver refined in a furnace on the ground,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>purified seven times.</p> </div> </div><h5>Psalm 119:140</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19119140.01-2">Your promise is well tried,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and your servant loves it.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Luke 24:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42024027.01-1">And beginning with Moses and all the Prophets, he interpreted to them in all the Scriptures the things concerning himself.</p> </div><h5>Acts 10:43</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44010043.01-2">To him all the prophets bear witness that everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins through his name.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Acts 26:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44026022.01-3">To this day I have had the help that comes from God, and so I stand here testifying both to small and great, saying nothing but what the prophets and Moses said would come to pass:  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 3:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45003019.01-1">Now we know that whatever the law says it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be stopped, and the whole world may be held accountable to God.</p> </div><h5>Romans 3:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45003027.01-2">Then what becomes of our boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? By a law of works? No, but by the law of faith.</p> </div><h5>Romans 16:25-27</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45016025.02-3">Now to him who is able to strengthen you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery that was kept secret for long ages but has now been disclosed and through the prophetic writings has been made known to all nations, according to the command of the eternal God, to bring about the obedience of faith&#8212; to the only wise God be glory forevermore through Jesus Christ! Amen.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 3:6-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47003006.01-4">who has made us competent to be ministers of a new covenant, not of the letter but of the Spirit. For the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life.</p>  <p id="p47003007.01-4">Now if the ministry of death, carved in letters on stone, came with such glory that the Israelites could not gaze at Moses' face because of its glory, which was being brought to an end, will not the ministry of the Spirit have even more glory? For if there was glory in the ministry of condemnation, the ministry of righteousness must far exceed it in glory. Indeed, in this case, what once had glory has come to have no glory at all, because of the glory that surpasses it. For if what was being brought to an end came with glory, much more will what is permanent have glory.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 18:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44018028.01-1">for he powerfully refuted the Jews in public, showing by the Scriptures that the Christ was Jesus.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 4:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58004012.01-2">For the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart.</p> </div><h5>James 1:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p59001018.01-3">Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures.</p> </div><h5>Psalm 19:7-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19019007.01-4">The law of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> is perfect,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>reviving the soul;<br /> the testimony of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> is sure,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>making wise the simple;<br />  the precepts of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> are right,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>rejoicing the heart;<br /> the commandment of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> is pure,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>enlightening the eyes;<br />  the fear of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> is clean,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>enduring forever;<br /> the rules of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> are true,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and righteous altogether.</p> </div> </div><h5>Romans 15:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45015004.01-5">For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope.</p> </div><h5>Acts 20:32</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44020032.01-6">And now I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc6]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 16:13-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43016013.01-1"><span class="woc">When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth, for he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come.</span> <span class="woc">He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you.</span></p> </div><h5>1 John 2:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62002020.01-2">But you have been anointed by the Holy One, and you all have knowledge.</p> </div><h5>1 John 2:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62002027.01-3">But the anointing that you received from him abides in you, and you have no need that anyone should teach you. But as his anointing teaches you about everything, and is true, and is no lie&#8212;just as it has taught you, abide in him.</p> </div><h5>John 20:31</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43020031.01-4">but these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

