---
pagetitle: Of the holy Scripture, part 6
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/01/09/
prev_date: Jan 9
this_url: /westminster-daily/01/10/
short_date: "0110"
this_date: Jan 10
next_url: /westminster-daily/01/11/
next_date: Jan 11
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 1: Of the Holy Scripture

6\. The whole counsel of God concerning all things necessary for his own glory, man's salvation, faith and life, is either expressly set down in Scripture, or by good and necessary consequence may be deduced from Scripture: unto which nothing at any time is to be added, whether by new revelations of the Spirit, or traditions of men.[^fnref:wcf1] Nevertheless, we acknowledge the inward illumination of the Spirit of God to be necessary for the saving understanding of such things as are revealed in the Word:[^fnref:wcf2] and that there are some circumstances concerning the worship of God, and government of the church, common to human actions and societies, which are to be ordered by the light of nature, and Christian prudence, according to the general rules of the Word, which are always to be observed.[^fnref:wcf3]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Timothy 3:15-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p55003015.01-1">and how from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be competent, equipped for every good work.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 1:8-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48001008.01-2">But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one we preached to you, let him be accursed. As we have said before, so now I say again: If anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to the one you received, let him be accursed.</p> </div><h5>2 Thessalonians 2:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p53002002.01-3">not to be quickly shaken in mind or alarmed, either by a spirit or a spoken word, or a letter seeming to be from us, to the effect that the day of the Lord has come.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 6:45</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43006045.01-1"><span class="woc">It is written in the Prophets, &#8216;And they will all be taught by God.&#8217; Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me&#8212;</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 2:9-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46002009.01-2">But, as it is written,</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p46002009.06-2">&#8220;What no eye has seen, nor ear heard,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>nor the heart of man imagined,<br /> what God has prepared for those who love him&#8221;&#8212;</p> </div>  <p class="same-paragraph" id="p46002010.01-2">these things God has revealed to us through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God. For who knows a person's thoughts except the spirit of that person, which is in him? So also no one comprehends the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God. Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might understand the things freely given us by God.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 11:13-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011013.01-1">Judge for yourselves: is it proper for a wife to pray to God with her head uncovered? Does not nature itself teach you that if a man wears long hair it is a disgrace for him,</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 14:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p46014026.03-2">What then, brothers? When you come together, each one has a hymn, a lesson, a revelation, a tongue, or an interpretation. Let all things be done for building up.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 14:40</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46014040.01-3">But all things should be done decently and in order.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

