---
pagetitle: Of the holy Scripture, part 8
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/01/11/
prev_date: Jan 11
this_url: /westminster-daily/01/12/
short_date: 0112
this_date: Jan 12
next_url: /westminster-daily/01/13/
next_date: Jan 13
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 1: Of the Holy Scripture

8\. The Old Testament in Hebrew (which was the native language of the people of God of old), and the New Testament in Greek (which, at the time of the writing of it, was most generally known to the nations), being immediately inspired by God, and, by his singular care and providence, kept pure in all ages, are therefore authentical;[^fnref:wcf1] so as, in all controversies of religion, the church is finally to appeal unto them.[^fnref:wcf2] But, because these original tongues are not known to all the people of God, who have right unto, and interest in the Scriptures, and are commanded, in the fear of God, to read and search them,[^fnref:wcf3] therefore they are to be translated into the vulgar language of every nation unto which they come,[^fnref:wcf4] that, the Word of God dwelling plentifully in all, they may worship him in an acceptable manner;[^fnref:wcf5] and, through patience and comfort of the Scriptures, may have hope.[^fnref:wcf6]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 5:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40005018.01-1"><span class="woc">For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law until all is accomplished.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Isaiah 8:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p23008020.01-1">To the teaching and to the testimony! If they will not speak according to this word, it is because they have no dawn.</p> </div><h5>Acts 15:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44015015.01-2">And with this the words of the prophets agree, just as it is written,</p> </div><h5>John 5:39</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43005039.01-3"><span class="woc">You search the Scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life; and it is they that bear witness about me,</span></p> </div><h5>John 5:46</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43005046.01-4"><span class="woc">For if you believed Moses, you would believe me; for he wrote of me.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 5:39</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43005039.01-1"><span class="woc">You search the Scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life; and it is they that bear witness about me,</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 14:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46014006.01-1">Now, brothers, if I come to you speaking in tongues, how will I benefit you unless I bring you some revelation or knowledge or prophecy or teaching?</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 14:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46014009.01-2">So with yourselves, if with your tongue you utter speech that is not intelligible, how will anyone know what is said? For you will be speaking into the air.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 14:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46014011.01-3">but if I do not know the meaning of the language, I will be a foreigner to the speaker and the speaker a foreigner to me. So with yourselves, since you are eager for manifestations of the Spirit, strive to excel in building up the church.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 14:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46014024.01-4">But if all prophesy, and an unbeliever or outsider enters, he is convicted by all, he is called to account by all,</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 14:27-28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46014027.01-5">If any speak in a tongue, let there be only two or at most three, and each in turn, and let someone interpret. But if there is no one to interpret, let each of them keep silent in church and speak to himself and to God.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Colossians 3:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51003016.01-1">Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, with thankfulness in your hearts to God.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf6]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 15:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45015004.01-1">For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

