---
pagetitle: How many persons are there in the Godhead?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/01/21/
prev_date: Jan 21
this_url: /westminster-daily/01/22/
this_date: Jan 22
next_url: /westminster-daily/01/23/
next_date: Jan 23
---

#### Shorter Catechism

6\. How many persons are there in the godhead?

A. There are three persons in the Godhead; the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost;[^fnref:wsc1] and these three are one God, the same in substance, equal in power and glory.[^fnref:wsc2]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 3:16-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40003016.01-1">And when Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him; and behold, a voice from heaven said, &#8220;This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Matthew 28:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40028019.01-2"><span class="woc">Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,</span></p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 13:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47013014.01-3">The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all.</p> </div><h5>1 Peter 1:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60001002.01-4">according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood:</p> <p id="p60001002.26-4">May grace and peace be multiplied to you.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 45:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19045006.01-1">Your throne, O God, is forever and ever.<br /> <span class="indent"></span>The scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of uprightness;</p> </div> </div><h5>John 1:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p class="chapter-first" id="p43001001.05-2"><span class="chapter-num" id="v43001001-2">1:1&nbsp;</span>In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.</p> </div><h5>John 17:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43017005.01-3"><span class="woc">And now, Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existed.</span></p> </div><h5>Acts 5:3-4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44005003.01-4">But Peter said, &#8220;Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back for yourself part of the proceeds of the land? While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not at your disposal? Why is it that you have contrived this deed in your heart? You have not lied to men but to God.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Romans 9:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45009005.01-5">To them belong the patriarchs, and from their race, according to the flesh, is the Christ who is God over all, blessed forever. Amen.</p> </div><h5>Colossians 2:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51002009.01-6">For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily,</p> </div><h5>Jude 1:24-25</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p65001024.02-7">Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy, to the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority, before all time and now and forever. Amen.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

9\. How many persons are there in the Godhead?

A. There be three persons in the Godhead, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost;[^fnref:wlc1] and these three are one true, eternal God, the same in substance, equal in power and glory; although distinguished by their personal properties.[^fnref:wlc2]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 3:16-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40003016.01-1">And when Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him; and behold, a voice from heaven said, &#8220;This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Matthew 28:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40028019.01-2"><span class="woc">Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,</span></p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 13:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47013014.01-3">The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 1:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p class="chapter-first" id="p43001001.05-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v43001001-1">1:1&nbsp;</span>In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.</p> </div><h5>Genesis 1:1-3</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p class="chapter-first" id="p01001001.06-2"><span class="chapter-num" id="v01001001-2">1:1&nbsp;</span>In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was over the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters.</p>  <p id="p01001003.01-2">And God said, &#8220;Let there be light,&#8221; and there was light.</p> </div><h5>John 17:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43017005.01-3"><span class="woc">And now, Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existed.</span></p> </div><h5>John 10:30</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43010030.01-4"><span class="woc">I and the Father are one.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Psalm 45:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19045006.01-5">Your throne, O God, is forever and ever.<br /> <span class="indent"></span>The scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of uprightness;</p> </div> </div><h5>Hebrews 1:8-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p58001008.01-6">But of the Son he says,</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p58001008.07-6">&#8220;Your throne, O God, is forever and ever,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>the scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your kingdom.<br />  You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness;<br /> therefore God, your God, has anointed you<br /> <span class="indent"></span>with the oil of gladness beyond your companions.&#8221;</p> </div> </div><h5>Acts 5:3-4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44005003.01-7">But Peter said, &#8220;Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back for yourself part of the proceeds of the land? While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not at your disposal? Why is it that you have contrived this deed in your heart? You have not lied to men but to God.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Romans 9:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45009005.01-8">To them belong the patriarchs, and from their race, according to the flesh, is the Christ who is God over all, blessed forever. Amen.</p> </div><h5>Colossians 2:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51002009.01-9">For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

