---
pagetitle: Of God's eternal decree, part 1
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/01/24/
prev_date: Jan 24
this_url: /westminster-daily/01/25/
this_date: Jan 25
next_url: /westminster-daily/01/26/
next_date: Jan 26
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 3: Of God's Eternal Decree

1. God, from all eternity, did, by the most wise and holy counsel of his own will, freely, and unchangeably ordain whatsoever comes to pass:[^fnref:wcf1] yet so, as thereby neither is God the author of sin,[^fnref:wcf2] nor is violence offered to the will of the creatures; nor is the liberty or contingency of second causes taken away, but rather established.[^fnref:wcf3]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 1:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001011.01-1">In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will,</p> </div><h5>Romans 11:33</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45011033.01-2">Oh, the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments and how inscrutable his ways!</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 6:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58006017.01-3">So when God desired to show more convincingly to the heirs of the promise the unchangeable character of his purpose, he guaranteed it with an oath,</p> </div><h5>Romans 9:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45009015.01-4">For he says to Moses, &#8220;I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Romans 9:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45009018.01-5">So then he has mercy on whomever he wills, and he hardens whomever he wills.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>James 1:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p59001013.01-1">Let no one say when he is tempted, &#8220;I am being tempted by God,&#8221; for God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one.</p> </div><h5>James 1:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p59001017.01-2">Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change.</p> </div><h5>1 John 1:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p62001005.05-3">This is the message we have heard from him and proclaim to you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 2:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002023.01-1">this Jesus, delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God, you crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men.</p> </div><h5>Matthew 17:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40017012.01-2"><span class="woc">But I tell you that Elijah has already come, and they did not recognize him, but did to him whatever they pleased. So also the Son of Man will certainly suffer at their hands.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Acts 4:27-28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p44004027.01-3">for truly in this city there were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel, to do whatever your hand and your plan had predestined to take place.</p> </div><h5>John 19:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43019011.01-4">Jesus answered him, <span class="woc">&#8220;You would have no authority over me at all unless it had been given you from above. Therefore he who delivered me over to you has the greater sin.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Proverbs 16:33</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20016033.01-5">The lot is cast into the lap,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>but its every decision is from the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.<br />   (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

