---
pagetitle: What hath God especially decreed concerning angels and men?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/01/28/
prev_date: Jan 28
this_url: /westminster-daily/01/29/
short_date: 0129
this_date: Jan 29
next_url: /westminster-daily/01/30/
next_date: Jan 30
---

#### Larger Catechism

13\. What hath God especially decreed concerning angels and men?

A. God, by an eternal and immutable decree, out of his mere love, for the praise of his glorious grace, to be manifested in due time, hath elected some angels to glory;[^fnref:wlc1] and in Christ hath chosen some men to eternal life, and the means thereof:[^fnref:wlc2] and also, according to his sovereign power, and the unsearchable counsel of his own will, (whereby he extendeth or withholdeth favor as he pleaseth,) hath passed by and foreordained the rest to dishonor and wrath, to be for their sin inflicted, to the praise of the glory of his justice.[^fnref:wlc3]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Timothy 5:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54005021.01-1">In the presence of God and of Christ Jesus and of the elect angels I charge you to keep these rules without prejudging, doing nothing from partiality.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 1:4-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001004.01-1">even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love he predestined us for adoption as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has blessed us in the Beloved.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002010.01-2">For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.</p> </div><h5>2 Thessalonians 2:13-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p53002013.03-3">But we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the firstfruits to be saved, through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth. To this he called you through our gospel, so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.</p> </div><h5>1 Peter 1:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60001002.01-4">according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood:</p> <p id="p60001002.26-4">May grace and peace be multiplied to you.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 9:17-18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45009017.01-1">For the Scripture says to Pharaoh, &#8220;For this very purpose I have raised you up, that I might show my power in you, and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth.&#8221; So then he has mercy on whomever he wills, and he hardens whomever he wills.</p> </div><h5>Romans 9:21-22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45009021.01-2">Has the potter no right over the clay, to make out of the same lump one vessel for honorable use and another for dishonorable use? What if God, desiring to show his wrath and to make known his power, has endured with much patience vessels of wrath prepared for destruction,</p> </div><h5>Matthew 11:25-26</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40011025.10-3">At that time Jesus declared, <span class="woc">&#8220;I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to little children;</span> <span class="woc">yes, Father, for such was your gracious will.</span></p> </div><h5>2 Timothy 2:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p55002020.01-4">Now in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver but also of wood and clay, some for honorable use, some for dishonorable.</p> </div><h5>Jude 1:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p65001004.01-5">For certain people have crept in unnoticed who long ago were designated for this condemnation, ungodly people, who pervert the grace of our God into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ.</p> </div><h5>1 Peter 2:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p60002008.01-6">and</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p60002008.02-6">&#8220;A stone of stumbling,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and a rock of offense.&#8221;</p> </div> <p class="same-paragraph" id="p60002008.11-6">They stumble because they disobey the word, as they were destined to do.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

