---
pagetitle: "Lord's Day 3: Original Sin"
prev_url: /heidelberg-weekly/week-02/
prev_week: "Week 2"
this_url: /heidelberg-weekly/week-03/
week_number: "03"
this_week: "Week 3"
lords_day: "3"
next_url: /heidelberg-weekly/week-04/
next_week: "Week 4"
---


## Lord's Day 3

### Original Sin

*Human Misery*

#### Question 6

Did God then create man so wicked and perverse?

##### Answer

By no means; but God created man good, [^fn6a] and after his own image, [^fn6b] in true righteousness and holiness, that he might rightly know God his Creator, heartily love him and live with him in eternal happiness to glorify and praise him. [^fn6c]

#### Question 7

Whence then proceeds this depravity of human nature?

##### Answer

From the fall and disobedience of our first parents, Adam and Eve, in Paradise; [^fn7a] hence our nature is become so corrupt, that we are all conceived and born in sin. [^fn7b]

#### Question 8

Are we then so corrupt that we are wholly incapable of doing any good, and inclined to all wickedness?

##### Answer

Indeed we are; [^fn8a] except we are regenerated by the Spirit of God. [^fn8b]



[^fn6a]: Genesis 1:31 And God saw every thing that he had made, and, behold, it was very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day.

[^fn6b]: Genesis 1:26 And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.

Genesis 1:27 So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them.

[^fn6c]: Colossians 3:9 Lie not one to another, seeing that ye have put off the old man with his deeds;

Colossians 3:10 And have put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him:

Ephesians 4:23 And be renewed in the spirit of your mind;

Ephesians 4:24 And that ye put on the new man, which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness.

2 Corinthians 3:18 But we all, with open face beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord.

[^fn7a]: Genesis 3.

Romans 5:12 Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned:

Romans 5:18 Therefore as by the offence of one judgment came upon all men to condemnation; even so by the righteousness of one the free gift came upon all men unto justification of life.

Romans 5:19 For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous.

[^fn7b]: Psalm 51:5 Behold, I was shapen in iniquity; and in sin did my mother conceive me.

Genesis 5:3 And Adam lived an hundred and thirty years, and begat a son in his own likeness, after his image; and called his name Seth:

[^fn8a]: Genesis 8:21 The imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth;

John 3:6 That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.

Genesis 6:5 And GOD saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.

Job 14:4 Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? not one.

Job 15:14 What is man, that he should be clean? and he which is born of a woman, that he should be righteous?

Job 15:16 How much more abominable and filthy is man, which drinketh iniquity like water?

Job 15:35 They conceive mischief, and bring forth vanity, and their belly prepareth deceit.

Isaiah 53:6 All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way; and the LORD hath laid on him the iniquity of us all.

[^fn8b]: John 3:3 Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.

John 3:5 Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.

1 Corinthians 12:3 Wherefore I give you to understand, that no man speaking by the Spirit of God calleth Jesus accursed: and that no man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost.

2 Corinthians 3:5 Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think any thing as of ourselves; but our sufficiency is of God;