---
pagetitle: Of the fall of man, of sin, and of the punishment thereof, part 5
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/02/29/
prev_date: Feb 29
this_url: /westminster-daily/03/01/
short_date: "0301"
this_date: Mar 1
next_url: /westminster-daily/03/02/
next_date: Mar 2
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 6: Of the Fall of Man, of Sin, and of the Punishment Thereof

<span class="q">5.</span> This corruption of nature, during this life, doth remain in those that are regenerated;[^fnref:wcf1] and although it be, through Christ, pardoned, and mortified; yet both itself, and all the motions thereof, are truly and properly sin.[^fnref:wcf2]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 John 1:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62001008.01-1">If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us.</p> </div><h5>1 John 1:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62001010.01-2">If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us.</p> </div><h5>Romans 7:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45007014.01-3">For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am of the flesh, sold under sin.</p> </div><h5>Romans 7:17-18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45007017.01-4">So now it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me. For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my flesh. For I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out.</p> </div><h5>Romans 7:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45007023.01-5">but I see in my members another law waging war against the law of my mind and making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members.</p> </div><h5>James 3:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p59003002.01-6">For we all stumble in many ways. And if anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man, able also to bridle his whole body.</p> </div><h5>Proverbs 20:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p20020009.01-7">Who can say, &#8220;I have made my heart pure;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>I am clean from my sin&#8221;?</p> </div> </div><h5>Ecclesiastes 7:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p21007020.01-8">Surely there is not a righteous man on earth who does good and never sins.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 7:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45007005.01-1">For while we were living in the flesh, our sinful passions, aroused by the law, were at work in our members to bear fruit for death.</p> </div><h5>Romans 7:7-8</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45007007.05-2">What then shall we say? That the law is sin? By no means! Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, &#8220;You shall not covet.&#8221; But sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, produced in me all kinds of covetousness. For apart from the law, sin lies dead.</p> </div><h5>Romans 7:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45007025.01-3">Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 5:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48005017.01-4">For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

