---
pagetitle: What misery did the fall bring upon mankind?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/03/03/
prev_date: Mar 3
this_url: /westminster-daily/03/04/
short_date: "0304"
this_date: Mar 4
next_url: /westminster-daily/03/05/
next_date: Mar 5
---

#### Shorter Catechism

<span class="q">Q 19.</span> What is the misery of that estate whereinto man fell?

<span class="q">A.</span> All mankind by their fall lost communion with God,[^fnref:wsc1] are under his wrath[^fnref:wsc2] and curse,[^fnref:wsc3] and so made liable to all the miseries of this life,[^fnref:wsc4] to death[^fnref:wsc5] itself, and to the pains of hell forever.[^fnref:wsc6]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 3:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01003008.01-1">And they heard the sound of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> God among the trees of the garden.</p> </div><h5>Genesis 3:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01003024.01-2">He drove out the man, and at the east of the garden of Eden he placed the cherubim and a flaming sword that turned every way to guard the way to the tree of life.</p> </div><h5>John 8:34</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43008034.01-3">Jesus answered them, <span class="woc">&#8220;Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who commits sin is a slave to sin.</span></p> </div><h5>John 8:42</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43008042.01-4">Jesus said to them, <span class="woc">&#8220;If God were your Father, you would love me, for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent me.</span></p> </div><h5>John 8:44</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43008044.01-5"><span class="woc">You are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, and has nothing to do with the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies.</span></p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002012.01-6">remember that you were at that time separated from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 4:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49004018.01-7">They are darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, due to their hardness of heart.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 3:36</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43003036.01-1">Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him.</p> </div><h5>Romans 1:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45001018.05-2">For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002003.01-3">among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 5:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49005006.01-4">Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Galatians 3:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p48003010.07-1">For all who rely on works of the law are under a curse; for it is written, &#8220;Cursed be everyone who does not abide by all things written in the Book of the Law, and do them.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Revelation 22:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66022003.01-2">No longer will there be anything accursed, but the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will worship him.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 3:16-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01003016.01-1">To the woman he said,</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p01003016.06-1">&#8220;I will surely multiply your pain in childbearing;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>in pain you shall bring forth children.<br /> Your desire shall be for your husband,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and he shall rule over you.&#8221;</p> </div>  <p id="p01003017.01-1">And to Adam he said,</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p01003017.06-1">&#8220;Because you have listened to the voice of your wife<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and have eaten of the tree<br /> of which I commanded you,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>&#8216;You shall not eat of it,&#8217;<br /> cursed is the ground because of you;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>in pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life;<br />  thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and you shall eat the plants of the field.<br />  By the sweat of your face<br /> <span class="indent"></span>you shall eat bread,<br /> till you return to the ground,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for out of it you were taken;<br /> for you are dust,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and to dust you shall return.&#8221;</p> </div> </div><h5>Job 5:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p18005007.01-2">but man is born to trouble<br /> <span class="indent"></span>as the sparks fly upward.</p> </div> </div><h5>Ecclesiastes 2:22-23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p21002022.01-3">What has a man from all the toil and striving of heart with which he toils beneath the sun? For all his days are full of sorrow, and his work is a vexation. Even in the night his heart does not rest. This also is vanity.</p> </div><h5>Romans 8:18-23</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45008018.03-4">For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ezekiel 18:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26018004.01-1">Behold, all souls are mine; the soul of the father as well as the soul of the son is mine: the soul who sins shall die.</p> </div><h5>Romans 5:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45005012.07-2">Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned&#8212;</p> </div><h5>Romans 6:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006023.01-3">For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc6]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 25:41</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40025041.01-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;Then he will say to those on his left, &#8216;Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels.</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 25:46</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40025046.01-2"><span class="woc">And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>2 Thessalonians 1:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p53001009.01-3">They will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction, away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might,</p> </div><h5>Revelation 14:9-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66014009.01-4">And another angel, a third, followed them, saying with a loud voice, &#8220;If anyone worships the beast and its image and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand, he also will drink the wine of God's wrath, poured full strength into the cup of his anger, and he will be tormented with fire and sulfur in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb. And the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever, and they have no rest, day or night, these worshipers of the beast and its image, and whoever receives the mark of its name.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">Q 27.</span> What misery did the fall bring upon mankind?

<span class="q">A.</span> The fall brought upon mankind the loss of communion with God,[^fnref:wlc1] his displeasure and curse;[^fnref:wlc2] so as we are by nature children of wrath,[^fnref:wlc3] bond slaves to Satan,[^fnref:wlc4] and justly liable to all punishments in this world, and that which is to come.[^fnref:wlc5]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 3:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01003008.01-1">And they heard the sound of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> God among the trees of the garden.</p> </div><h5>Genesis 3:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01003010.01-2">And he said, &#8220;I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked, and I hid myself.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Genesis 3:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01003024.01-3">He drove out the man, and at the east of the garden of Eden he placed the cherubim and a flaming sword that turned every way to guard the way to the tree of life.</p> </div><h5>John 8:34</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43008034.01-4">Jesus answered them, <span class="woc">&#8220;Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who commits sin is a slave to sin.</span></p> </div><h5>John 8:42</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43008042.01-5">Jesus said to them, <span class="woc">&#8220;If God were your Father, you would love me, for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent me.</span></p> </div><h5>John 8:44</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43008044.01-6"><span class="woc">You are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, and has nothing to do with the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies.</span></p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002012.01-7">remember that you were at that time separated from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 3:16-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01003016.01-1">To the woman he said,</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p01003016.06-1">&#8220;I will surely multiply your pain in childbearing;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>in pain you shall bring forth children.<br /> Your desire shall be for your husband,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and he shall rule over you.&#8221;</p> </div>  <p id="p01003017.01-1">And to Adam he said,</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p01003017.06-1">&#8220;Because you have listened to the voice of your wife<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and have eaten of the tree<br /> of which I commanded you,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>&#8216;You shall not eat of it,&#8217;<br /> cursed is the ground because of you;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>in pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life;<br />  thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and you shall eat the plants of the field.<br />  By the sweat of your face<br /> <span class="indent"></span>you shall eat bread,<br /> till you return to the ground,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for out of it you were taken;<br /> for you are dust,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and to dust you shall return.&#8221;</p> </div> </div><h5>Job 5:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p18005007.01-2">but man is born to trouble<br /> <span class="indent"></span>as the sparks fly upward.</p> </div> </div><h5>Ecclesiastes 2:22-23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p21002022.01-3">What has a man from all the toil and striving of heart with which he toils beneath the sun? For all his days are full of sorrow, and his work is a vexation. Even in the night his heart does not rest. This also is vanity.</p> </div><h5>Romans 8:18-23</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45008018.03-4">For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 2:2-3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002002.01-1">in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience&#8212; among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind.</p> </div><h5>John 3:36</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43003036.01-2">Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him.</p> </div><h5>Romans 1:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45001018.05-3">For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 5:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49005006.01-4">Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Timothy 2:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p55002026.01-1">and they may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil, after being captured by him to do his will.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 2:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01002017.01-1">but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Lamentations 3:39</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p25003039.01-2">Why should a living man complain,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>a man, about the punishment of his sins?</p> </div> </div><h5>Romans 6:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45006023.01-3">For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.</p> </div><h5>Matthew 25:41</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40025041.01-4"><span class="woc">&#8220;Then he will say to those on his left, &#8216;Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels.</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 25:46</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40025046.01-5"><span class="woc">And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Jude 1:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p65001007.01-6">just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities, which likewise indulged in sexual immorality and pursued unnatural desire, serve as an example by undergoing a punishment of eternal fire.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

