---
pagetitle: What are the punishments of sin in the world to come?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/03/05/
prev_date: Mar 5
this_url: /westminster-daily/03/06/
this_date: Mar 6
next_url: /westminster-daily/03/07/
next_date: Mar 7
---

#### Larger Catechism

29. What are the punishments of sin in the world to come?

A. The punishments of sin in the world to come, are everlasting separation from the comfortable presence of God, and most grievous torments in soul and body, without intermission, in hellfire forever.[^fnref:wlc1]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Thessalonians 1:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p53001009.01-1">They will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction, away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might,</p> </div><h5>Mark 9:43</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p41009043.01-2"><span class="woc">And if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life crippled than with two hands to go to hell, to the unquenchable fire.</span></p> </div><h5>Mark 9:45-47</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p41009045.01-3"><span class="woc">And if your foot causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life lame than with two feet to be thrown into hell.</span> <span class="woc">And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out. It is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into hell,</span></p> </div><h5>Mark 9:48</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p41009048.01-4"><span class="woc">&#8216;where their worm does not die and the fire is not quenched.&#8217;</span></p> </div><h5>Luke 16:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42016024.01-5"><span class="woc">And he called out, &#8216;Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus to dip the end of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am in anguish in this flame.&#8217;</span></p> </div><h5>Luke 16:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42016026.01-6"><span class="woc">And besides all this, between us and you a great chasm has been fixed, in order that those who would pass from here to you may not be able, and none may cross from there to us.&#8217;</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 25:41</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40025041.01-7"><span class="woc">&#8220;Then he will say to those on his left, &#8216;Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels.</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 25:46</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40025046.01-8"><span class="woc">And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Revelation 14:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p66014011.01-9">And the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever, and they have no rest, day or night, these worshipers of the beast and its image, and whoever receives the mark of its name.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>John 3:36</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43003036.01-10">Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

