---
pagetitle: Of God's covenant with man, part 2
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/03/08/
prev_date: Mar 8
this_url: /westminster-daily/03/09/
short_date: "0309"
this_date: Mar 9
next_url: /westminster-daily/03/10/
next_date: Mar 10
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 7: Of God's Covenant with Man

The first covenant made with man was a covenant of works,[^fnref:wcf1] wherein life was promised to Adam; and in him to his posterity,[^fnref:wcf2] upon condition of perfect and personal obedience.[^fnref:wcf3]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Galatians 3:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48003012.01-1">But the law is not of faith, rather &#8220;The one who does them shall live by them.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 10:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45010005.07-1">For Moses writes about the righteousness that is based on the law, that the person who does the commandments shall live by them.</p> </div><h5>Romans 5:12-20</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45005012.07-2">Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned&#8212; for sin indeed was in the world before the law was given, but sin is not counted where there is no law. Yet death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those whose sinning was not like the transgression of Adam, who was a type of the one who was to come.</p>  <p id="p45005015.01-2">But the free gift is not like the trespass. For if many died through one man's trespass, much more have the grace of God and the free gift by the grace of that one man Jesus Christ abounded for many. And the free gift is not like the result of that one man's sin. For the judgment following one trespass brought condemnation, but the free gift following many trespasses brought justification. For if, because of one man's trespass, death reigned through that one man, much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man Jesus Christ.</p>  <p id="p45005018.01-2">Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all men. For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous. Now the law came in to increase the trespass, but where sin increased, grace abounded all the more,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 2:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01002017.01-1">but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Galatians 3:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p48003010.07-2">For all who rely on works of the law are under a curse; for it is written, &#8220;Cursed be everyone who does not abide by all things written in the Book of the Law, and do them.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

