---
pagetitle: Of God's covenant with man, part 3
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/03/09/
prev_date: Mar 9
this_url: /westminster-daily/03/10/
this_date: Mar 10
next_url: /westminster-daily/03/11/
next_date: Mar 11
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 7: Of God's Covenant with Man

3. Man, by his fall, having made himself incapable of life by that covenant, the Lord was pleased to make a second,[^fnref:wcf1] commonly called the covenant of grace; wherein he freely offereth unto sinners life and salvation by Jesus Christ; requiring of them faith in him, that they may be saved,[^fnref:wcf2] and promising to give unto all those that are ordained unto eternal life his Holy Spirit, to make them willing, and able to believe.[^fnref:wcf3]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Galatians 3:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48003021.01-1">Is the law then contrary to the promises of God? Certainly not! For if a law had been given that could give life, then righteousness would indeed be by the law.</p> </div><h5>Romans 8:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008003.01-2">For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do. By sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh,</p> </div><h5>Romans 3:20-21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45003020.01-3">For by works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin.</p>   <p id="p45003021.07-3">But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it&#8212;</p> </div><h5>Genesis 3:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p01003015.01-4">I will put enmity between you and the woman,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and between your offspring and her offspring;<br /> he shall bruise your head,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and you shall bruise his heel.&#8221;</p> </div> </div><h5>Isaiah 42:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23042006.01-5">&#8220;I am the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>; I have called you in righteousness;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>I will take you by the hand and keep you;<br /> I will give you as a covenant for the people,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>a light for the nations,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Mark 16:15-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p41016015.01-1">And he said to them, <span class="woc">&#8220;Go into all the world and proclaim the gospel to the whole creation.</span> <span class="woc">Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned.</span></p> </div><h5>John 3:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p43003016.07-2"><span class="woc">&#8220;For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.</span></p> </div><h5>Romans 10:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45010006.01-3">But the righteousness based on faith says, &#8220;Do not say in your heart, &#8216;Who will ascend into heaven?&#8217;&#8221; (that is, to bring Christ down)</p> </div><h5>Romans 10:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45010009.01-4">because, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 3:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48003011.01-5">Now it is evident that no one is justified before God by the law, for &#8220;The righteous shall live by faith.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ezekiel 36:26-27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26036026.01-1">And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules.</p> </div><h5>John 6:44-45</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43006044.01-2"><span class="woc">No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last day.</span> <span class="woc">It is written in the Prophets, &#8216;And they will all be taught by God.&#8217; Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me&#8212;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

