---
pagetitle: Did God leave all mankind to perish in the estate of sin and misery?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/03/10/
prev_date: Mar 10
this_url: /westminster-daily/03/11/
short_date: "0311"
this_date: Mar 11
next_url: /westminster-daily/03/12/
next_date: Mar 12
---

#### Shorter Catechism

20\. Did God leave all mankind to perish in the estate of sin and misery?

A. God, having out of his mere good pleasure, from all eternity, elected some to everlasting life,[^fnref:wsc1] did enter into a covenant of grace to deliver them out of the estate of sin and misery, and to bring them into an estate of salvation by a Redeemer.[^fnref:wsc2]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 13:48</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44013048.01-1">And when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord, and as many as were appointed to eternal life believed.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 1:4-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001004.01-2">even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love he predestined us for adoption as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will,</p> </div><h5>2 Thessalonians 2:13-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p53002013.03-3">But we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the firstfruits to be saved, through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth. To this he called you through our gospel, so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 3:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p01003015.01-1">I will put enmity between you and the woman,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and between your offspring and her offspring;<br /> he shall bruise your head,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and you shall bruise his heel.&#8221;</p> </div> </div><h5>Genesis 17:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01017007.01-2">And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and to your offspring after you.</p> </div><h5>Exodus 19:5-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02019005.01-3">Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, you shall be my treasured possession among all peoples, for all the earth is mine; and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words that you shall speak to the people of Israel.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Jeremiah 31:31-34</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p24031031.04-4">&#8220;Behold, the days are coming, declares the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah, not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, my covenant that they broke, though I was their husband, declares the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>: I will put my law within them, and I will write it on their hearts. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And no longer shall each one teach his neighbor and each his brother, saying, &#8216;Know the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>,&#8217; for they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest, declares the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. For I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Matthew 20:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40020028.01-5"><span class="woc">even as the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 11:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011025.01-6">In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Hebrews 9:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58009015.01-7">Therefore he is the mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance, since a death has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions committed under the first covenant.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

30\. Doth God leave all mankind to perish in the estate of sin and misery?

A. God doth not leave all men to perish in the estate of sin and misery,[^fnref:wlc1] into which they fell by the breach of the first covenant, commonly called the covenant of works;[^fnref:wlc2] but of his mere love and mercy delivereth his elect out of it, and bringeth them into an estate of salvation by the second covenant, commonly called the covenant of grace.[^fnref:wlc3]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Thessalonians 5:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p52005009.01-1">For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 3:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01003017.01-1">And to Adam he said,</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p01003017.06-1">&#8220;Because you have listened to the voice of your wife<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and have eaten of the tree<br /> of which I commanded you,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>&#8216;You shall not eat of it,&#8217;<br /> cursed is the ground because of you;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>in pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life;</p> </div> </div><h5>Romans 5:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45005012.07-2">Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned&#8212;</p> </div><h5>Romans 5:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45005015.01-3">But the free gift is not like the trespass. For if many died through one man's trespass, much more have the grace of God and the free gift by the grace of that one man Jesus Christ abounded for many.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 3:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p48003010.07-4">For all who rely on works of the law are under a curse; for it is written, &#8220;Cursed be everyone who does not abide by all things written in the Book of the Law, and do them.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Galatians 3:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48003012.01-5">But the law is not of faith, rather &#8220;The one who does them shall live by them.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Titus 3:4-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56003004.01-1">But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that being justified by his grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 3:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48003021.01-2">Is the law then contrary to the promises of God? Certainly not! For if a law had been given that could give life, then righteousness would indeed be by the law.</p> </div><h5>Romans 3:20-22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45003020.01-3">For by works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin.</p>   <p id="p45003021.07-3">But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it&#8212; the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction:</p> </div><h5>2 Thessalonians 2:13-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p53002013.03-4">But we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the firstfruits to be saved, through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth. To this he called you through our gospel, so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.</p> </div><h5>Acts 13:48</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44013048.01-5">And when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord, and as many as were appointed to eternal life believed.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 1:4-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001004.01-6">even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love he predestined us for adoption as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

