---
pagetitle: With whom was the covenant of grace made?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/03/11/
prev_date: Mar 11
this_url: /westminster-daily/03/12/
short_date: "0312"
this_date: Mar 12
next_url: /westminster-daily/03/13/
next_date: Mar 13
---

#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">31.</span> With whom was the covenant of grace made?

<span class="q">A.</span> The covenant of grace was made with Christ as the second Adam, and in him with all the elect as his seed.[^fnref:wlc1]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Galatians 3:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48003016.01-1">Now the promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring. It does not say, &#8220;And to offsprings,&#8221; referring to many, but referring to one, &#8220;And to your offspring,&#8221; who is Christ.</p> </div><h5>Romans 5:15-21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45005015.01-2">But the free gift is not like the trespass. For if many died through one man's trespass, much more have the grace of God and the free gift by the grace of that one man Jesus Christ abounded for many. And the free gift is not like the result of that one man's sin. For the judgment following one trespass brought condemnation, but the free gift following many trespasses brought justification. For if, because of one man's trespass, death reigned through that one man, much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man Jesus Christ.</p>  <p id="p45005018.01-2">Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all men. For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous. Now the law came in to increase the trespass, but where sin increased, grace abounded all the more, so that, as sin reigned in death, grace also might reign through righteousness leading to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.</p> </div><h5>Isaiah 53:10-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23053010.01-3">Yet it was the will of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> to crush him;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he has put him to grief;<br /> when his soul makes an offering for guilt,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he shall see his offspring; he shall prolong his days;<br /> the will of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> shall prosper in his hand.<br />  Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied;<br /> by his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>make many to be accounted righteous,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and he shall bear their iniquities.</p> </div> </div><h5>Isaiah 59:20-21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23059020.01-4">&#8220;And a Redeemer will come to Zion,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to those in Jacob who turn from transgression,&#8221; declares the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.</p> </div>  <p class="same-paragraph" id="p23059021.01-4">&#8220;And as for me, this is my covenant with them,&#8221; says the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>: &#8220;My Spirit that is upon you, and my words that I have put in your mouth, shall not depart out of your mouth, or out of the mouth of your offspring, or out of the mouth of your children's offspring,&#8221; says the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, &#8220;from this time forth and forevermore.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

