---
pagetitle: How is the grace of God manifested in the second covenant?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/03/12/
prev_date: Mar 12
this_url: /westminster-daily/03/13/
short_date: "0313"
this_date: Mar 13
next_url: /westminster-daily/03/14/
next_date: Mar 14
---

#### Larger Catechism

32\. How is the grace of God manifested in the second covenant?

A. The grace of God is manifested in the second covenant, in that he freely provideth and offereth to sinners a Mediator,[^fnref:wlc1] and life and salvation by him;[^fnref:wlc2] and requiring faith as the condition to interest them in him,[^fnref:wlc3] promiseth and giveth his Holy Spirit[^fnref:wlc4] to all his elect, to work in them that faith,[^fnref:wlc5] with all other saving graces;[^fnref:wlc6] and to enable them unto all holy obedience,[^fnref:wlc7] as the evidence of the truth of their faith[^fnref:wlc8] and thankfulness to God,[^fnref:wlc9] and as the way which he hath appointed them to salvation.[^fnref:wlc10]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 3:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p01003015.01-1">I will put enmity between you and the woman,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and between your offspring and her offspring;<br /> he shall bruise your head,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and you shall bruise his heel.&#8221;</p> </div> </div><h5>Isaiah 42:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23042006.01-2">&#8220;I am the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>; I have called you in righteousness;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>I will take you by the hand and keep you;<br /> I will give you as a covenant for the people,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>a light for the nations,</p> </div> </div><h5>John 3:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p43003016.07-3"><span class="woc">&#8220;For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.</span></p> </div><h5>John 6:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43006027.01-4"><span class="woc">Do not labor for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him God the Father has set his seal.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 2:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54002005.01-5">For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 John 5:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62005011.01-1">And this is the testimony, that God gave us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life; whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 3:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p43003016.07-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.</span></p> </div><h5>John 3:36</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43003036.01-2">Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him.</p> </div><h5>John 1:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43001012.01-3">But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Isaiah 59:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="same-paragraph" id="p23059021.01-1">&#8220;And as for me, this is my covenant with them,&#8221; says the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>: &#8220;My Spirit that is upon you, and my words that I have put in your mouth, shall not depart out of your mouth, or out of the mouth of your offspring, or out of the mouth of your children's offspring,&#8221; says the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, &#8220;from this time forth and forevermore.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Luke 11:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42011013.01-2"><span class="woc">If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him!&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>John 14:16-20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43014016.01-3"><span class="woc">And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you forever,</span> <span class="woc">even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you.</span></p>  <p id="p43014018.01-3"><span class="woc">&#8220;I will not leave you as orphans; I will come to you.</span> <span class="woc">Yet a little while and the world will see me no more, but you will see me. Because I live, you also will live.</span> <span class="woc">In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you.</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 12:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46012013.01-4">For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body&#8212;Jews or Greeks, slaves or free&#8212;and all were made to drink of one Spirit.</p> </div><h5>Romans 8:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008004.01-5">in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but according to the Spirit.</p> </div><h5>Romans 8:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008009.01-6">You, however, are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him.</p> </div><h5>Romans 8:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008011.01-7">If the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you.</p> </div><h5>Romans 8:14-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008014.01-8">For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the Spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, &#8220;Abba! Father!&#8221; The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Corinthians 4:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47004013.01-1">Since we have the same spirit of faith according to what has been written, &#8220;I believed, and so I spoke,&#8221; we also believe, and so we also speak,</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 12:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46012003.01-2">Therefore I want you to understand that no one speaking in the Spirit of God ever says &#8220;Jesus is accursed!&#8221; and no one can say &#8220;Jesus is Lord&#8221; except in the Holy Spirit.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 12:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46012009.01-3">to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healing by the one Spirit,</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:8-10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002008.01-4">For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.</p> </div><h5>Acts 16:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44016014.01-5">One who heard us was a woman named Lydia, from the city of Thyatira, a seller of purple goods, who was a worshiper of God. The Lord opened her heart to pay attention to what was said by Paul.</p> </div><h5>2 Peter 1:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p class="chapter-first" id="p61001001.02-6"><span class="chapter-num" id="v61001001-6">1:1&nbsp;</span>Simeon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ,</p> <p id="p61001001.11-6">To those who have obtained a faith of equal standing with ours by the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ:  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc6]: <div class="esv"><h5>Galatians 5:22-23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48005022.01-1">But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc7]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ezekiel 36:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26036027.01-1">And I will put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002010.01-2">For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc8]: <div class="esv"><h5>James 2:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p59002018.01-1">But someone will say, &#8220;You have faith and I have works.&#8221; Show me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works.</p> </div><h5>James 2:22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p59002022.01-2">You see that faith was active along with his works, and faith was completed by his works;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc9]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Corinthians 5:14-15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47005014.01-1">For the love of Christ controls us, because we have concluded this: that one has died for all, therefore all have died; and he died for all, that those who live might no longer live for themselves but for him who for their sake died and was raised.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc10]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 2:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002010.01-1">For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.</p> </div><h5>Titus 2:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56002014.01-2">who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

