---
pagetitle: Of God's covenant with man, part 5
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/03/14/
prev_date: Mar 14
this_url: /westminster-daily/03/15/
short_date: "0315"
this_date: Mar 15
next_url: /westminster-daily/03/16/
next_date: Mar 16
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 7: Of God's Covenant with Man

5\. This covenant was differently administered in the time of the law, and in the time of the gospel:[^fnref:wcf1] under the law, it was administered by promises, prophecies, sacrifices, circumcision, the paschal lamb, and other types and ordinances delivered to the people of the Jews, all foresignifying Christ to come;[^fnref:wcf2] which were, for that time, sufficient and efficacious, through the operation of the Spirit, to instruct and build up the elect in faith in the promised Messiah,[^fnref:wcf3] by whom they had full remission of sins, and eternal salvation; and is called the old testament.[^fnref:wcf4]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Corinthians 3:6-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47003006.01-1">who has made us competent to be ministers of a new covenant, not of the letter but of the Spirit. For the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life.</p>  <p id="p47003007.01-1">Now if the ministry of death, carved in letters on stone, came with such glory that the Israelites could not gaze at Moses' face because of its glory, which was being brought to an end, will not the ministry of the Spirit have even more glory? For if there was glory in the ministry of condemnation, the ministry of righteousness must far exceed it in glory.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 8-10</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p58008001.08-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v58008001-1">8:1&nbsp;</span>Now the point in what we are saying is this: we have such a high priest, one who is seated at the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in heaven, a minister in the holy places, in the true tent that the Lord set up, not man. For every high priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices; thus it is necessary for this priest also to have something to offer. Now if he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all, since there are priests who offer gifts according to the law. They serve a copy and shadow of the heavenly things. For when Moses was about to erect the tent, he was instructed by God, saying, &#8220;See that you make everything according to the pattern that was shown you on the mountain.&#8221; But as it is, Christ has obtained a ministry that is as much more excellent than the old as the covenant he mediates is better, since it is enacted on better promises. For if that first covenant had been faultless, there would have been no occasion to look for a second.</p>  <p id="p58008008.01-1">For he finds fault with them when he says:</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p58008008.10-1">&#8220;Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>when I will establish a new covenant with the house of Israel<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and with the house of Judah,<br />  not like the covenant that I made with their fathers<br /> <span class="indent"></span>on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt.<br /> For they did not continue in my covenant,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and so I showed no concern for them, declares the Lord.<br />  For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel<br /> <span class="indent"></span>after those days, declares the Lord:<br /> I will put my laws into their minds,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and write them on their hearts,<br /> and I will be their God,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and they shall be my people.<br />  And they shall not teach, each one his neighbor<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and each one his brother, saying, &#8216;Know the Lord,&#8217;<br /> for they shall all know me,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>from the least of them to the greatest.<br />  For I will be merciful toward their iniquities,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and I will remember their sins no more.&#8221;</p> </div>  <p class="same-paragraph" id="p58008013.01-1">In speaking of a new covenant, he makes the first one obsolete. And what is becoming obsolete and growing old is ready to vanish away.</p>   <p id="p58009001.05-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v58009001-1">9:1&nbsp;</span>Now even the first covenant had regulations for worship and an earthly place of holiness. For a tent was prepared, the first section, in which were the lampstand and the table and the bread of the Presence. It is called the Holy Place. Behind the second curtain was a second section called the Most Holy Place, having the golden altar of incense and the ark of the covenant covered on all sides with gold, in which was a golden urn holding the manna, and Aaron's staff that budded, and the tablets of the covenant. Above it were the cherubim of glory overshadowing the mercy seat. Of these things we cannot now speak in detail.</p>  <p id="p58009006.01-1">These preparations having thus been made, the priests go regularly into the first section, performing their ritual duties, but into the second only the high priest goes, and he but once a year, and not without taking blood, which he offers for himself and for the unintentional sins of the people. By this the Holy Spirit indicates that the way into the holy places is not yet opened as long as the first section is still standing (which is symbolic for the present age). According to this arrangement, gifts and sacrifices are offered that cannot perfect the conscience of the worshiper, but deal only with food and drink and various washings, regulations for the body imposed until the time of reformation.</p>   <p id="p58009011.07-1">But when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things that have come, then through the greater and more perfect tent (not made with hands, that is, not of this creation) he entered once for all into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption. For if the blood of goats and bulls, and the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer, sanctify for the purification of the flesh, how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God.</p>  <p id="p58009015.01-1">Therefore he is the mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance, since a death has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions committed under the first covenant. For where a will is involved, the death of the one who made it must be established. For a will takes effect only at death, since it is not in force as long as the one who made it is alive. Therefore not even the first covenant was inaugurated without blood. For when every commandment of the law had been declared by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of calves and goats, with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people, saying, &#8220;This is the blood of the covenant that God commanded for you.&#8221; And in the same way he sprinkled with the blood both the tent and all the vessels used in worship. Indeed, under the law almost everything is purified with blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins.</p>  <p id="p58009023.01-1">Thus it was necessary for the copies of the heavenly things to be purified with these rites, but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these. For Christ has entered, not into holy places made with hands, which are copies of the true things, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf. Nor was it to offer himself repeatedly, as the high priest enters the holy places every year with blood not his own, for then he would have had to suffer repeatedly since the foundation of the world. But as it is, he has appeared once for all at the end of the ages to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. And just as it is appointed for man to die once, and after that comes judgment, so Christ, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, not to deal with sin but to save those who are eagerly waiting for him.</p>   <p id="p58010001.06-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v58010001-1">10:1&nbsp;</span>For since the law has but a shadow of the good things to come instead of the true form of these realities, it can never, by the same sacrifices that are continually offered every year, make perfect those who draw near. Otherwise, would they not have ceased to be offered, since the worshipers, having once been cleansed, would no longer have any consciousness of sins? But in these sacrifices there is a reminder of sins every year. For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins.</p>  <p id="p58010005.01-1">Consequently, when Christ came into the world, he said,</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p58010005.10-1">&#8220;Sacrifices and offerings you have not desired,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>but a body have you prepared for me;<br />  in burnt offerings and sin offerings<br /> <span class="indent"></span>you have taken no pleasure.<br />  Then I said, &#8216;Behold, I have come to do your will, O God,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>as it is written of me in the scroll of the book.&#8217;&#8221;</p> </div>  <p class="same-paragraph" id="p58010008.01-1">When he said above, &#8220;You have neither desired nor taken pleasure in sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sin offerings&#8221; (these are offered according to the law), then he added, &#8220;Behold, I have come to do your will.&#8221; He does away with the first in order to establish the second. And by that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.</p>  <p id="p58010011.01-1">And every priest stands daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God, waiting from that time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet. For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified.</p>  <p id="p58010015.01-1">And the Holy Spirit also bears witness to us; for after saying,</p>  <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p58010016.01-1">&#8220;This is the covenant that I will make with them<br /> <span class="indent"></span>after those days, declares the Lord:<br /> I will put my laws on their hearts,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and write them on their minds,&#8221;</p> </div>  <p class="same-paragraph" id="p58010017.01-1">then he adds,</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p58010017.04-1">&#8220;I will remember their sins and their lawless deeds no more.&#8221;</p> </div>  <p class="same-paragraph" id="p58010018.01-1">Where there is forgiveness of these, there is no longer any offering for sin.</p>   <p id="p58010019.06-1">Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that he opened for us through the curtain, that is, through his flesh, and since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the Day drawing near.</p>  <p id="p58010026.01-1">For if we go on sinning deliberately after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins, but a fearful expectation of judgment, and a fury of fire that will consume the adversaries. Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses dies without mercy on the evidence of two or three witnesses. How much worse punishment, do you think, will be deserved by the one who has spurned the Son of God, and has profaned the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified, and has outraged the Spirit of grace? For we know him who said, &#8220;Vengeance is mine; I will repay.&#8221; And again, &#8220;The Lord will judge his people.&#8221; It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.</p>  <p id="p58010032.01-1">But recall the former days when, after you were enlightened, you endured a hard struggle with sufferings, sometimes being publicly exposed to reproach and affliction, and sometimes being partners with those so treated. For you had compassion on those in prison, and you joyfully accepted the plundering of your property, since you knew that you yourselves had a better possession and an abiding one. Therefore do not throw away your confidence, which has a great reward. For you have need of endurance, so that when you have done the will of God you may receive what is promised. For,</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p58010037.02-1">&#8220;Yet a little while,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and the coming one will come and will not delay;<br />  but my righteous one shall live by faith,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and if he shrinks back,<br /> my soul has no pleasure in him.&#8221;</p> </div>  <p class="same-paragraph" id="p58010039.01-1">But we are not of those who shrink back and are destroyed, but of those who have faith and preserve their souls.</p> </div><h5>Romans 4:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45004011.01-2">He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that righteousness would be counted to them as well,</p> </div><h5>Colossians 2:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51002011.01-3">In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ, having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 5:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46005007.01-4">Cleanse out the old leaven that you may be a new lump, as you really are unleavened. For Christ, our Passover lamb, has been sacrificed.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 10:1-4</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p46010001.04-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v46010001-1">10:1&nbsp;</span>For I want you to know, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea, and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and all ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the spiritual Rock that followed them, and the Rock was Christ.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 11:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58011013.01-2">These all died in faith, not having received the things promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar, and having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth.</p> </div><h5>John 8:56</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43008056.01-3"><span class="woc">Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Galatians 3:7-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48003007.01-1">Know then that it is those of faith who are the sons of Abraham. And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, &#8220;In you shall all the nations be blessed.&#8221; So then, those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 3:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48003014.01-2">so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

