---
pagetitle: How was the covenant of grace administered under the Old Testament?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/03/16/
prev_date: Mar 16
this_url: /westminster-daily/03/17/
short_date: "0317"
this_date: Mar 17
next_url: /westminster-daily/03/18/
next_date: Mar 18
---

#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">34.</span> How was the covenant of grace administered under the old testament?

<span class="q">A.</span> The covenant of grace was administered under the old testament, by promises,[^fnref:wlc1] prophecies,[^fnref:wlc2] sacrifices,[^fnref:wlc3] circumcision,[^fnref:wlc4] the Passover,[^fnref:wlc5] and other types and ordinances, which did all foresignify Christ then to come, and were for that time sufficient to build up the elect in faith in the promised Messiah,[^fnref:wlc6] by whom they then had full remission of sin, and eternal salvation.[^fnref:wlc7]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 15:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45015008.08-1">For I tell you that Christ became a servant to the circumcised to show God's truthfulness, in order to confirm the promises given to the patriarchs,</p> </div><h5>Genesis 3:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p01003015.01-2">I will put enmity between you and the woman,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and between your offspring and her offspring;<br /> he shall bruise your head,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and you shall bruise his heel.&#8221;</p> </div> </div><h5>Genesis 12:1-3</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p01012001.05-3"><span class="chapter-num" id="v01012001-3">12:1&nbsp;</span>Now the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> said to Abram, &#8220;Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. And I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Genesis 15:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01015005.01-4">And he brought him outside and said, &#8220;Look toward heaven, and number the stars, if you are able to number them.&#8221; Then he said to him, &#8220;So shall your offspring be.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 3:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44003020.01-1">that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord, and that he may send the Christ appointed for you, Jesus,</p> </div><h5>Acts 3:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44003024.01-2">And all the prophets who have spoken, from Samuel and those who came after him, also proclaimed these days.</p> </div><h5>Isaiah 52:13-53:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23052013.07-3">Behold, my servant shall act wisely;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he shall be high and lifted up,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and shall be exalted.<br />  As many were astonished at you&#8212;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>his appearance was so marred, beyond human semblance,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and his form beyond that of the children of mankind&#8212;<br />  so shall he sprinkle many nations;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>kings shall shut their mouths because of him;<br /> for that which has not been told them they see,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and that which they have not heard they understand.<br />  <span class="chapter-num" id="v23053001-3">53:1&nbsp;</span>Who has believed what he has heard from us?<br /> <span class="indent"></span>And to whom has the arm of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> been revealed?<br />  For he grew up before him like a young plant,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and like a root out of dry ground;<br /> he had no form or majesty that we should look at him,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and no beauty that we should desire him.<br />  He was despised and rejected by men;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief;<br /> and as one from whom men hide their faces<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he was despised, and we esteemed him not.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p23053004.01-3">Surely he has borne our griefs<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and carried our sorrows;<br /> yet we esteemed him stricken,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>smitten by God, and afflicted.<br />  But he was wounded for our transgressions;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he was crushed for our iniquities;<br /> upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and with his stripes we are healed.<br />  All we like sheep have gone astray;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>we have turned&#8212;every one&#8212;to his own way;<br /> and the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> has laid on him<br /> <span class="indent"></span>the iniquity of us all.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p23053007.01-3">He was oppressed, and he was afflicted,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>yet he opened not his mouth;<br /> like a lamb that is led to the slaughter,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and like a sheep that before its shearers is silent,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>so he opened not his mouth.<br />  By oppression and judgment he was taken away;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and as for his generation, who considered<br /> that he was cut off out of the land of the living,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>stricken for the transgression of my people?<br />  And they made his grave with the wicked<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and with a rich man in his death,<br /> although he had done no violence,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and there was no deceit in his mouth.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p23053010.01-3">Yet it was the will of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> to crush him;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he has put him to grief;<br /> when his soul makes an offering for guilt,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he shall see his offspring; he shall prolong his days;<br /> the will of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> shall prosper in his hand.<br />  Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied;<br /> by his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>make many to be accounted righteous,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and he shall bear their iniquities.<br />  Therefore I will divide him a portion with the many,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and he shall divide the spoil with the strong,<br /> because he poured out his soul to death<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and was numbered with the transgressors;<br /> yet he bore the sin of many,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and makes intercession for the transgressors.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 10:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p58010001.06-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v58010001-1">10:1&nbsp;</span>For since the law has but a shadow of the good things to come instead of the true form of these realities, it can never, by the same sacrifices that are continually offered every year, make perfect those who draw near.</p> </div><h5>Leviticus 1-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p class="chapter-first" id="p03001001.05-2"><span class="chapter-num" id="v03001001-2">1:1&nbsp;</span>The <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> called Moses and spoke to him from the tent of meeting, saying, &#8220;Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When any one of you brings an offering to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, you shall bring your offering of livestock from the herd or from the flock.</p>  <p id="p03001003.01-2">&#8220;If his offering is a burnt offering from the herd, he shall offer a male without blemish. He shall bring it to the entrance of the tent of meeting, that he may be accepted before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. He shall lay his hand on the head of the burnt offering, and it shall be accepted for him to make atonement for him. Then he shall kill the bull before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, and Aaron's sons the priests shall bring the blood and throw the blood against the sides of the altar that is at the entrance of the tent of meeting. Then he shall flay the burnt offering and cut it into pieces, and the sons of Aaron the priest shall put fire on the altar and arrange wood on the fire. And Aaron's sons the priests shall arrange the pieces, the head, and the fat, on the wood that is on the fire on the altar; but its entrails and its legs he shall wash with water. And the priest shall burn all of it on the altar, as a burnt offering, a food offering with a pleasing aroma to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.</p>  <p id="p03001010.01-2">&#8220;If his gift for a burnt offering is from the flock, from the sheep or goats, he shall bring a male without blemish, and he shall kill it on the north side of the altar before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, and Aaron's sons the priests shall throw its blood against the sides of the altar. And he shall cut it into pieces, with its head and its fat, and the priest shall arrange them on the wood that is on the fire on the altar, but the entrails and the legs he shall wash with water. And the priest shall offer all of it and burn it on the altar; it is a burnt offering, a food offering with a pleasing aroma to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.</p>  <p id="p03001014.01-2">&#8220;If his offering to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> is a burnt offering of birds, then he shall bring his offering of turtledoves or pigeons. And the priest shall bring it to the altar and wring off its head and burn it on the altar. Its blood shall be drained out on the side of the altar. He shall remove its crop with its contents and cast it beside the altar on the east side, in the place for ashes. He shall tear it open by its wings, but shall not sever it completely. And the priest shall burn it on the altar, on the wood that is on the fire. It is a burnt offering, a food offering with a pleasing aroma to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.</p>   <p id="p03002001.05-2"><span class="chapter-num" id="v03002001-2">2:1&nbsp;</span>&#8220;When anyone brings a grain offering as an offering to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, his offering shall be of fine flour. He shall pour oil on it and put frankincense on it and bring it to Aaron's sons the priests. And he shall take from it a handful of the fine flour and oil, with all of its frankincense, and the priest shall burn this as its memorial portion on the altar, a food offering with a pleasing aroma to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. But the rest of the grain offering shall be for Aaron and his sons; it is a most holy part of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>'s food offerings.</p>  <p id="p03002004.01-2">&#8220;When you bring a grain offering baked in the oven as an offering, it shall be unleavened loaves of fine flour mixed with oil or unleavened wafers smeared with oil. And if your offering is a grain offering baked on a griddle, it shall be of fine flour unleavened, mixed with oil. You shall break it in pieces and pour oil on it; it is a grain offering. And if your offering is a grain offering cooked in a pan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil. And you shall bring the grain offering that is made of these things to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, and when it is presented to the priest, he shall bring it to the altar. And the priest shall take from the grain offering its memorial portion and burn this on the altar, a food offering with a pleasing aroma to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. But the rest of the grain offering shall be for Aaron and his sons; it is a most holy part of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>'s food offerings.</p>  <p id="p03002011.01-2">&#8220;No grain offering that you bring to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> shall be made with leaven, for you shall burn no leaven nor any honey as a food offering to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. As an offering of firstfruits you may bring them to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, but they shall not be offered on the altar for a pleasing aroma. You shall season all your grain offerings with salt. You shall not let the salt of the covenant with your God be missing from your grain offering; with all your offerings you shall offer salt.</p>  <p id="p03002014.01-2">&#8220;If you offer a grain offering of firstfruits to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, you shall offer for the grain offering of your firstfruits fresh ears, roasted with fire, crushed new grain. And you shall put oil on it and lay frankincense on it; it is a grain offering. And the priest shall burn as its memorial portion some of the crushed grain and some of the oil with all of its frankincense; it is a food offering to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.</p>   <p id="p03003001.05-2"><span class="chapter-num" id="v03003001-2">3:1&nbsp;</span>&#8220;If his offering is a sacrifice of peace offering, if he offers an animal from the herd, male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. And he shall lay his hand on the head of his offering and kill it at the entrance of the tent of meeting, and Aaron's sons the priests shall throw the blood against the sides of the altar. And from the sacrifice of the peace offering, as a food offering to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, he shall offer the fat covering the entrails and all the fat that is on the entrails, and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins, and the long lobe of the liver that he shall remove with the kidneys. Then Aaron's sons shall burn it on the altar on top of the burnt offering, which is on the wood on the fire; it is a food offering with a pleasing aroma to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.</p>  <p id="p03003006.01-2">&#8220;If his offering for a sacrifice of peace offering to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> is an animal from the flock, male or female, he shall offer it without blemish. If he offers a lamb for his offering, then he shall offer it before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, lay his hand on the head of his offering, and kill it in front of the tent of meeting; and Aaron's sons shall throw its blood against the sides of the altar. Then from the sacrifice of the peace offering he shall offer as a food offering to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> its fat; he shall remove the whole fat tail, cut off close to the backbone, and the fat that covers the entrails and all the fat that is on the entrails and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins and the long lobe of the liver that he shall remove with the kidneys. And the priest shall burn it on the altar as a food offering to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.</p>  <p id="p03003012.01-2">&#8220;If his offering is a goat, then he shall offer it before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> and lay his hand on its head and kill it in front of the tent of meeting, and the sons of Aaron shall throw its blood against the sides of the altar. Then he shall offer from it, as his offering for a food offering to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, the fat covering the entrails and all the fat that is on the entrails and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins and the long lobe of the liver that he shall remove with the kidneys. And the priest shall burn them on the altar as a food offering with a pleasing aroma. All fat is the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>'s. It shall be a statute forever throughout your generations, in all your dwelling places, that you eat neither fat nor blood.&#8221;</p>   <p id="p03004001.05-2"><span class="chapter-num" id="v03004001-2">4:1&nbsp;</span>And the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> spoke to Moses, saying, &#8220;Speak to the people of Israel, saying, If anyone sins unintentionally in any of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>'s commandments about things not to be done, and does any one of them, if it is the anointed priest who sins, thus bringing guilt on the people, then he shall offer for the sin that he has committed a bull from the herd without blemish to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> for a sin offering. He shall bring the bull to the entrance of the tent of meeting before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> and lay his hand on the head of the bull and kill the bull before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. And the anointed priest shall take some of the blood of the bull and bring it into the tent of meeting, and the priest shall dip his finger in the blood and sprinkle part of the blood seven times before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> in front of the veil of the sanctuary. And the priest shall put some of the blood on the horns of the altar of fragrant incense before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> that is in the tent of meeting, and all the rest of the blood of the bull he shall pour out at the base of the altar of burnt offering that is at the entrance of the tent of meeting. And all the fat of the bull of the sin offering he shall remove from it, the fat that covers the entrails and all the fat that is on the entrails and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins and the long lobe of the liver that he shall remove with the kidneys (just as these are taken from the ox of the sacrifice of the peace offerings); and the priest shall burn them on the altar of burnt offering. But the skin of the bull and all its flesh, with its head, its legs, its entrails, and its dung&#8212; all the rest of the bull&#8212;he shall carry outside the camp to a clean place, to the ash heap, and shall burn it up on a fire of wood. On the ash heap it shall be burned up.</p>  <p id="p03004013.01-2">&#8220;If the whole congregation of Israel sins unintentionally and the thing is hidden from the eyes of the assembly, and they do any one of the things that by the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>'s commandments ought not to be done, and they realize their guilt, when the sin which they have committed becomes known, the assembly shall offer a bull from the herd for a sin offering and bring it in front of the tent of meeting. And the elders of the congregation shall lay their hands on the head of the bull before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, and the bull shall be killed before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. Then the anointed priest shall bring some of the blood of the bull into the tent of meeting, and the priest shall dip his finger in the blood and sprinkle it seven times before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> in front of the veil. And he shall put some of the blood on the horns of the altar that is in the tent of meeting before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, and the rest of the blood he shall pour out at the base of the altar of burnt offering that is at the entrance of the tent of meeting. And all its fat he shall take from it and burn on the altar. Thus shall he do with the bull. As he did with the bull of the sin offering, so shall he do with this. And the priest shall make atonement for them, and they shall be forgiven. And he shall carry the bull outside the camp and burn it up as he burned the first bull; it is the sin offering for the assembly.</p>  <p id="p03004022.01-2">&#8220;When a leader sins, doing unintentionally any one of all the things that by the commandments of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> his God ought not to be done, and realizes his guilt, or the sin which he has committed is made known to him, he shall bring as his offering a goat, a male without blemish, and shall lay his hand on the head of the goat and kill it in the place where they kill the burnt offering before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>; it is a sin offering. Then the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering and pour out the rest of its blood at the base of the altar of burnt offering. And all its fat he shall burn on the altar, like the fat of the sacrifice of peace offerings. So the priest shall make atonement for him for his sin, and he shall be forgiven.</p>  <p id="p03004027.01-2">&#8220;If anyone of the common people sins unintentionally in doing any one of the things that by the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>'s commandments ought not to be done, and realizes his guilt, or the sin which he has committed is made known to him, he shall bring for his offering a goat, a female without blemish, for his sin which he has committed. And he shall lay his hand on the head of the sin offering and kill the sin offering in the place of burnt offering. And the priest shall take some of its blood with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering and pour out all the rest of its blood at the base of the altar. And all its fat he shall remove, as the fat is removed from the peace offerings, and the priest shall burn it on the altar for a pleasing aroma to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. And the priest shall make atonement for him, and he shall be forgiven.</p>  <p id="p03004032.01-2">&#8220;If he brings a lamb as his offering for a sin offering, he shall bring a female without blemish and lay his hand on the head of the sin offering and kill it for a sin offering in the place where they kill the burnt offering. Then the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering and pour out all the rest of its blood at the base of the altar. And all its fat he shall remove as the fat of the lamb is removed from the sacrifice of peace offerings, and the priest shall burn it on the altar, on top of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>'s food offerings. And the priest shall make atonement for him for the sin which he has committed, and he shall be forgiven.</p>  <p id="p03005001.01-2"><span class="chapter-num" id="v03005001-2">5:1&nbsp;</span>&#8220;If anyone sins in that he hears a public adjuration to testify, and though he is a witness, whether he has seen or come to know the matter, yet does not speak, he shall bear his iniquity; or if anyone touches an unclean thing, whether a carcass of an unclean wild animal or a carcass of unclean livestock or a carcass of unclean swarming things, and it is hidden from him and he has become unclean, and he realizes his guilt; or if he touches human uncleanness, of whatever sort the uncleanness may be with which one becomes unclean, and it is hidden from him, when he comes to know it, and realizes his guilt; or if anyone utters with his lips a rash oath to do evil or to do good, any sort of rash oath that people swear, and it is hidden from him, when he comes to know it, and he realizes his guilt in any of these; when he realizes his guilt in any of these and confesses the sin he has committed, he shall bring to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> as his compensation for the sin that he has committed, a female from the flock, a lamb or a goat, for a sin offering. And the priest shall make atonement for him for his sin.</p>  <p id="p03005007.01-2">&#8220;But if he cannot afford a lamb, then he shall bring to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> as his compensation for the sin that he has committed two turtledoves or two pigeons, one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering. He shall bring them to the priest, who shall offer first the one for the sin offering. He shall wring its head from its neck but shall not sever it completely, and he shall sprinkle some of the blood of the sin offering on the side of the altar, while the rest of the blood shall be drained out at the base of the altar; it is a sin offering. Then he shall offer the second for a burnt offering according to the rule. And the priest shall make atonement for him for the sin that he has committed, and he shall be forgiven.</p>  <p id="p03005011.01-2">&#8220;But if he cannot afford two turtledoves or two pigeons, then he shall bring as his offering for the sin that he has committed a tenth of an ephah of fine flour for a sin offering. He shall put no oil on it and shall put no frankincense on it, for it is a sin offering. And he shall bring it to the priest, and the priest shall take a handful of it as its memorial portion and burn this on the altar, on the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>'s food offerings; it is a sin offering. Thus the priest shall make atonement for him for the sin which he has committed in any one of these things, and he shall be forgiven. And the remainder shall be for the priest, as in the grain offering.&#8221;</p>   <p id="p03005014.05-2">The <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> spoke to Moses, saying, &#8220;If anyone commits a breach of faith and sins unintentionally in any of the holy things of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, he shall bring to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> as his compensation, a ram without blemish out of the flock, valued in silver shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, for a guilt offering. He shall also make restitution for what he has done amiss in the holy thing and shall add a fifth to it and give it to the priest. And the priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the guilt offering, and he shall be forgiven.</p>  <p id="p03005017.01-2">&#8220;If anyone sins, doing any of the things that by the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>'s commandments ought not to be done, though he did not know it, then realizes his guilt, he shall bear his iniquity. He shall bring to the priest a ram without blemish out of the flock, or its equivalent for a guilt offering, and the priest shall make atonement for him for the mistake that he made unintentionally, and he shall be forgiven. It is a guilt offering; he has indeed incurred guilt before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.&#8221;</p>  <p id="p03006001.01-2"><span class="chapter-num" id="v03006001-2">6:1&nbsp;</span> The <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> spoke to Moses, saying, &#8220;If anyone sins and commits a breach of faith against the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> by deceiving his neighbor in a matter of deposit or security, or through robbery, or if he has oppressed his neighbor or has found something lost and lied about it, swearing falsely&#8212;in any of all the things that people do and sin thereby&#8212; if he has sinned and has realized his guilt and will restore what he took by robbery or what he got by oppression or the deposit that was committed to him or the lost thing that he found or anything about which he has sworn falsely, he shall restore it in full and shall add a fifth to it, and give it to him to whom it belongs on the day he realizes his guilt. And he shall bring to the priest as his compensation to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> a ram without blemish out of the flock, or its equivalent for a guilt offering. And the priest shall make atonement for him before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, and he shall be forgiven for any of the things that one may do and thereby become guilty.&#8221;</p>   <p id="p03006008.06-2"> The <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> spoke to Moses, saying, &#8220;Command Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the law of the burnt offering. The burnt offering shall be on the hearth on the altar all night until the morning, and the fire of the altar shall be kept burning on it. And the priest shall put on his linen garment and put his linen undergarment on his body, and he shall take up the ashes to which the fire has reduced the burnt offering on the altar and put them beside the altar. Then he shall take off his garments and put on other garments and carry the ashes outside the camp to a clean place. The fire on the altar shall be kept burning on it; it shall not go out. The priest shall burn wood on it every morning, and he shall arrange the burnt offering on it and shall burn on it the fat of the peace offerings. Fire shall be kept burning on the altar continually; it shall not go out.</p>  <p id="p03006014.01-2">&#8220;And this is the law of the grain offering. The sons of Aaron shall offer it before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> in front of the altar. And one shall take from it a handful of the fine flour of the grain offering and its oil and all the frankincense that is on the grain offering and burn this as its memorial portion on the altar, a pleasing aroma to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. And the rest of it Aaron and his sons shall eat. It shall be eaten unleavened in a holy place. In the court of the tent of meeting they shall eat it. It shall not be baked with leaven. I have given it as their portion of my food offerings. It is a thing most holy, like the sin offering and the guilt offering. Every male among the children of Aaron may eat of it, as decreed forever throughout your generations, from the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>'s food offerings. Whatever touches them shall become holy.&#8221;</p>  <p id="p03006019.01-2">The <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> spoke to Moses, saying, &#8220;This is the offering that Aaron and his sons shall offer to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> on the day when he is anointed: a tenth of an ephah of fine flour as a regular grain offering, half of it in the morning and half in the evening. It shall be made with oil on a griddle. You shall bring it well mixed, in baked pieces like a grain offering, and offer it for a pleasing aroma to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. The priest from among Aaron's sons, who is anointed to succeed him, shall offer it to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> as decreed forever. The whole of it shall be burned. Every grain offering of a priest shall be wholly burned. It shall not be eaten.&#8221;</p>  <p id="p03006024.01-2">The <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> spoke to Moses, saying, &#8220;Speak to Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the law of the sin offering. In the place where the burnt offering is killed shall the sin offering be killed before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>; it is most holy. The priest who offers it for sin shall eat it. In a holy place it shall be eaten, in the court of the tent of meeting. Whatever touches its flesh shall be holy, and when any of its blood is splashed on a garment, you shall wash that on which it was splashed in a holy place. And the earthenware vessel in which it is boiled shall be broken. But if it is boiled in a bronze vessel, that shall be scoured and rinsed in water. Every male among the priests may eat of it; it is most holy. But no sin offering shall be eaten from which any blood is brought into the tent of meeting to make atonement in the Holy Place; it shall be burned up with fire.</p>  <p id="p03007001.01-2"><span class="chapter-num" id="v03007001-2">7:1&nbsp;</span>&#8220;This is the law of the guilt offering. It is most holy. In the place where they kill the burnt offering they shall kill the guilt offering, and its blood shall be thrown against the sides of the altar. And all its fat shall be offered, the fat tail, the fat that covers the entrails, the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins, and the long lobe of the liver that he shall remove with the kidneys. The priest shall burn them on the altar as a food offering to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>; it is a guilt offering. Every male among the priests may eat of it. It shall be eaten in a holy place. It is most holy. The guilt offering is just like the sin offering; there is one law for them. The priest who makes atonement with it shall have it. And the priest who offers any man's burnt offering shall have for himself the skin of the burnt offering that he has offered. And every grain offering baked in the oven and all that is prepared on a pan or a griddle shall belong to the priest who offers it. And every grain offering, mixed with oil or dry, shall be shared equally among all the sons of Aaron.</p>  <p id="p03007011.01-2">&#8220;And this is the law of the sacrifice of peace offerings that one may offer to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. If he offers it for a thanksgiving, then he shall offer with the thanksgiving sacrifice unleavened loaves mixed with oil, unleavened wafers smeared with oil, and loaves of fine flour well mixed with oil. With the sacrifice of his peace offerings for thanksgiving he shall bring his offering with loaves of leavened bread. And from it he shall offer one loaf from each offering, as a gift to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. It shall belong to the priest who throws the blood of the peace offerings. And the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings for thanksgiving shall be eaten on the day of his offering. He shall not leave any of it until the morning. But if the sacrifice of his offering is a vow offering or a freewill offering, it shall be eaten on the day that he offers his sacrifice, and on the next day what remains of it shall be eaten. But what remains of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day shall be burned up with fire. If any of the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offering is eaten on the third day, he who offers it shall not be accepted, neither shall it be credited to him. It is tainted, and he who eats of it shall bear his iniquity.</p>  <p id="p03007019.01-2">&#8220;Flesh that touches any unclean thing shall not be eaten. It shall be burned up with fire. All who are clean may eat flesh, but the person who eats of the flesh of the sacrifice of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>'s peace offerings while an uncleanness is on him, that person shall be cut off from his people. And if anyone touches an unclean thing, whether human uncleanness or an unclean beast or any unclean detestable creature, and then eats some flesh from the sacrifice of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>'s peace offerings, that person shall be cut off from his people.&#8221;</p>  <p id="p03007022.01-2">The <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> spoke to Moses, saying, &#8220;Speak to the people of Israel, saying, You shall eat no fat, of ox or sheep or goat. The fat of an animal that dies of itself and the fat of one that is torn by beasts may be put to any other use, but on no account shall you eat it. For every person who eats of the fat of an animal of which a food offering may be made to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> shall be cut off from his people. Moreover, you shall eat no blood whatever, whether of fowl or of animal, in any of your dwelling places. Whoever eats any blood, that person shall be cut off from his people.&#8221;</p>  <p id="p03007028.01-2">The <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> spoke to Moses, saying, &#8220;Speak to the people of Israel, saying, Whoever offers the sacrifice of his peace offerings to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> shall bring his offering to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> from the sacrifice of his peace offerings. His own hands shall bring the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>'s food offerings. He shall bring the fat with the breast, that the breast may be waved as a wave offering before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. The priest shall burn the fat on the altar, but the breast shall be for Aaron and his sons. And the right thigh you shall give to the priest as a contribution from the sacrifice of your peace offerings. Whoever among the sons of Aaron offers the blood of the peace offerings and the fat shall have the right thigh for a portion. For the breast that is waved and the thigh that is contributed I have taken from the people of Israel, out of the sacrifices of their peace offerings, and have given them to Aaron the priest and to his sons, as a perpetual due from the people of Israel. This is the portion of Aaron and of his sons from the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>'s food offerings, from the day they were presented to serve as priests of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. The <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> commanded this to be given them by the people of Israel, from the day that he anointed them. It is a perpetual due throughout their generations.&#8221;</p>  <p id="p03007037.01-2">This is the law of the burnt offering, of the grain offering, of the sin offering, of the guilt offering, of the ordination offering, and of the peace offering, which the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> commanded Moses on Mount Sinai, on the day that he commanded the people of Israel to bring their offerings to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, in the wilderness of Sinai.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 4:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45004011.01-1">He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that righteousness would be counted to them as well,</p> </div><h5>Genesis 17:1-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p01017001.07-2"><span class="chapter-num" id="v01017001-2">17:1&nbsp;</span>When Abram was ninety-nine years old the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> appeared to Abram and said to him, &#8220;I am God Almighty; walk before me, and be blameless, that I may make my covenant between me and you, and may multiply you greatly.&#8221; Then Abram fell on his face. And God said to him, &#8220;Behold, my covenant is with you, and you shall be the father of a multitude of nations. No longer shall your name be called Abram, but your name shall be Abraham, for I have made you the father of a multitude of nations. I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make you into nations, and kings shall come from you. And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and to your offspring after you. And I will give to you and to your offspring after you the land of your sojournings, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God.&#8221;</p>  <p id="p01017009.01-2">And God said to Abraham, &#8220;As for you, you shall keep my covenant, you and your offspring after you throughout their generations. This is my covenant, which you shall keep, between me and you and your offspring after you: Every male among you shall be circumcised. You shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskins, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you. He who is eight days old among you shall be circumcised. Every male throughout your generations, whether born in your house or bought with your money from any foreigner who is not of your offspring, both he who is born in your house and he who is bought with your money, shall surely be circumcised. So shall my covenant be in your flesh an everlasting covenant. Any uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin shall be cut off from his people; he has broken my covenant.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 5:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46005007.01-1">Cleanse out the old leaven that you may be a new lump, as you really are unleavened. For Christ, our Passover lamb, has been sacrificed.</p> </div><h5>Exodus 12:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02012014.01-2">&#8220;This day shall be for you a memorial day, and you shall keep it as a feast to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>; throughout your generations, as a statute forever, you shall keep it as a feast.</p> </div><h5>Exodus 12:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02012017.01-3">And you shall observe the Feast of Unleavened Bread, for on this very day I brought your hosts out of the land of Egypt. Therefore you shall observe this day, throughout your generations, as a statute forever.</p> </div><h5>Exodus 12:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02012024.01-4">You shall observe this rite as a statute for you and for your sons forever.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc6]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 8:1-2</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p58008001.08-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v58008001-1">8:1&nbsp;</span>Now the point in what we are saying is this: we have such a high priest, one who is seated at the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in heaven, a minister in the holy places, in the true tent that the Lord set up, not man.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 11:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58011013.01-2">These all died in faith, not having received the things promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar, and having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc7]: <div class="esv"><h5>Galatians 3:7-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48003007.01-1">Know then that it is those of faith who are the sons of Abraham. And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, &#8220;In you shall all the nations be blessed.&#8221; So then, those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 3:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48003014.01-2">so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

