---
pagetitle: Of God's covenant with man, part 6
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/03/17/
prev_date: Mar 17
this_url: /westminster-daily/03/18/
short_date: "0318"
this_date: Mar 18
next_url: /westminster-daily/03/19/
next_date: Mar 19
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 7: Of God's Covenant with Man

Under the gospel, when Christ, the substance,[^fnref:wcf1] was exhibited, the ordinances in which this covenant is dispensed are the preaching of the Word, and the administration of the sacraments of baptism and the Lord's Supper:[^fnref:wcf2] which, though fewer in number, and administered with more simplicity, and less outward glory, yet, in them, it is held forth in more fullness, evidence and spiritual efficacy,[^fnref:wcf3] to all nations, both Jews and Gentiles;[^fnref:wcf4] and is called the new testament.[^fnref:wcf5] There are not therefore two covenants of grace, differing in substance, but one and the same, under various dispensations.[^fnref:wcf6]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Colossians 2:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51002017.01-1">These are a shadow of the things to come, but the substance belongs to Christ.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 28:19-20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40028019.01-1"><span class="woc">Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,</span> <span class="woc">teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 11:23-25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011023.01-2">For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, <span class="woc">&#8220;This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 12:22-27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58012022.01-1">But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels in festal gathering, and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel.</p>  <p id="p58012025.01-1">See that you do not refuse him who is speaking. For if they did not escape when they refused him who warned them on earth, much less will we escape if we reject him who warns from heaven. At that time his voice shook the earth, but now he has promised, &#8220;Yet once more I will shake not only the earth but also the heavens.&#8221; This phrase, &#8220;Yet once more,&#8221; indicates the removal of things that are shaken&#8212;that is, things that have been made&#8212;in order that the things that cannot be shaken may remain.</p> </div><h5>Jeremiah 31:33-34</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p24031033.01-2">But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>: I will put my law within them, and I will write it on their hearts. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And no longer shall each one teach his neighbor and each his brother, saying, &#8216;Know the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>,&#8217; for they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest, declares the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>. For I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 28:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40028019.01-1"><span class="woc">Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,</span></p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:15-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002015.01-2">by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace, and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. And he came and preached peace to you who were far off and peace to those who were near. For through him we both have access in one Spirit to the Father. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Luke 22:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42022020.01-1">And likewise the cup after they had eaten, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;This cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf6]: <div class="esv"><h5>Galatians 3:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48003014.01-1">so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 3:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48003016.01-2">Now the promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring. It does not say, &#8220;And to offsprings,&#8221; referring to many, but referring to one, &#8220;And to your offspring,&#8221; who is Christ.</p> </div><h5>Acts 15:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44015011.01-3">But we believe that we will be saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus, just as they will.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Romans 3:21-23</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45003021.07-4">But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it&#8212; the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction: for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God,</p> </div><h5>Romans 3:30</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45003030.01-5">since God is one&#8212;who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith.</p> </div><h5>Psalm 32:1</h5> <div class="esv-text">  <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19032001.09-6"><span class="chapter-num" id="v19032001-6">32:1&nbsp;</span>Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>whose sin is covered.</p> </div> </div><h5>Romans 4:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45004003.01-7">For what does the Scripture say? &#8220;Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Romans 4:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45004006.01-8">just as David also speaks of the blessing of the one to whom God counts righteousness apart from works:</p> </div><h5>Romans 4:16-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45004016.01-9">That is why it depends on faith, in order that the promise may rest on grace and be guaranteed to all his offspring&#8212;not only to the adherent of the law but also to the one who shares the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all, as it is written, &#8220;I have made you the father of many nations&#8221;&#8212;in the presence of the God in whom he believed, who gives life to the dead and calls into existence the things that do not exist.</p> </div><h5>Romans 4:23-24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45004023.01-10">But the words &#8220;it was counted to him&#8221; were not written for his sake alone, but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe in him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord,</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 13:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58013008.01-11">Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

