---
pagetitle: How is the covenant of grace administered under the New Testament?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/03/18/
prev_date: Mar 18
this_url: /westminster-daily/03/19/
short_date: 0319
this_date: Mar 19
next_url: /westminster-daily/03/20/
next_date: Mar 20
---

#### Larger Catechism

35\. How is the covenant of grace administered under the new testament?

A. Under the new testament, when Christ the substance was exhibited, the same covenant of grace was and still is to be administered in the preaching of the Word,[^fnref:wlc1] and the administration of the sacraments of baptism[^fnref:wlc2] and the Lord's Supper;[^fnref:wlc3] in which grace and salvation are held forth in more fullness, evidence, and efficacy, to all nations.[^fnref:wlc4]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Luke 24:47-48</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42024047.01-1"><span class="woc">and that repentance and forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem.</span> <span class="woc">You are witnesses of these things.</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 28:19-20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40028019.01-2"><span class="woc">Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,</span> <span class="woc">teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 28:19-20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40028019.01-1"><span class="woc">Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,</span> <span class="woc">teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 26:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40026028.01-1"><span class="woc">for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 11:23-25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46011023.01-2">For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, <span class="woc">&#8220;This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span> In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, <span class="woc">&#8220;This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 1:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45001016.07-1">For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 3:6-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47003006.01-2">who has made us competent to be ministers of a new covenant, not of the letter but of the Spirit. For the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life.</p>  <p id="p47003007.01-2">Now if the ministry of death, carved in letters on stone, came with such glory that the Israelites could not gaze at Moses' face because of its glory, which was being brought to an end, will not the ministry of the Spirit have even more glory? For if there was glory in the ministry of condemnation, the ministry of righteousness must far exceed it in glory.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 8:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58008006.01-3">But as it is, Christ has obtained a ministry that is as much more excellent than the old as the covenant he mediates is better, since it is enacted on better promises.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 8:10-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p58008010.01-4">For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel<br /> <span class="indent"></span>after those days, declares the Lord:<br /> I will put my laws into their minds,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and write them on their hearts,<br /> and I will be their God,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and they shall be my people.<br />  And they shall not teach, each one his neighbor<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and each one his brother, saying, &#8216;Know the Lord,&#8217;<br /> for they shall all know me,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>from the least of them to the greatest.</p> </div> </div><h5>Matthew 28:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40028019.01-5"><span class="woc">Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,</span></p> </div><h5>Ephesians 3:1-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p49003001.07-6"><span class="chapter-num" id="v49003001-6">3:1&nbsp;</span>For this reason I, Paul, a prisoner for Christ Jesus on behalf of you Gentiles&#8212; assuming that you have heard of the stewardship of God's grace that was given to me for you, how the mystery was made known to me by revelation, as I have written briefly. When you read this, you can perceive my insight into the mystery of Christ, which was not made known to the sons of men in other generations as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit. This mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the same body, and partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel.</p>  <p id="p49003007.01-6">Of this gospel I was made a minister according to the gift of God's grace, which was given me by the working of his power. To me, though I am the very least of all the saints, this grace was given, to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ, and to bring to light for everyone what is the plan of the mystery hidden for ages in God who created all things, so that through the church the manifold wisdom of God might now be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places. This was according to the eternal purpose that he has realized in Christ Jesus our Lord, in whom we have boldness and access with confidence through our faith in him.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

