---
pagetitle: Of Christ the mediator, part 2
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/03/20/
prev_date: Mar 20
this_url: /westminster-daily/03/21/
short_date: "0321"
this_date: Mar 21
next_url: /westminster-daily/03/22/
next_date: Mar 22
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 8: Of Christ the Mediator

<span class="q">2.</span> The Son of God, the second person in the Trinity, being very and eternal God, of one substance and equal with the Father, did, when the fullness of time was come, take upon him man's nature,[^fnref:wcf1] with all the essential properties, and common infirmities thereof, yet without sin;[^fnref:wcf2] being conceived by the power of the Holy Ghost, in the womb of the virgin Mary, of her substance.[^fnref:wcf3] So that two whole, perfect, and distinct natures, the Godhead and the manhood, were inseparably joined together in one person, without conversion, composition, or confusion.[^fnref:wcf4] Which person is very God, and very man, yet one Christ, the only Mediator between God and man.[^fnref:wcf5]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 1:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p class="chapter-first" id="p43001001.05-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v43001001-1">1:1&nbsp;</span>In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.</p> </div><h5>John 1:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43001014.01-2">And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth.</p> </div><h5>1 John 5:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62005020.01-3">And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding, so that we may know him who is true; and we are in him who is true, in his Son Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life.</p> </div><h5>Philippians 2:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50002006.01-4">who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped,</p> </div><h5>Galatians 4:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48004004.01-5">But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of woman, born under the law,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 2:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58002014.01-1">Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things, that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil,</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 2:16-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58002016.01-2">For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham. Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 4:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58004015.01-3">For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Luke 1:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42001027.01-1">to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David. And the virgin's name was Mary.</p> </div><h5>Luke 1:31</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42001031.01-2">And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus.</p> </div><h5>Luke 1:35</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42001035.01-3">And the angel answered her, &#8220;The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you; therefore the child to be born will be called holy&#8212;the Son of God.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 4:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48004004.01-4">But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of woman, born under the law,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Luke 1:35</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42001035.01-1">And the angel answered her, &#8220;The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you; therefore the child to be born will be called holy&#8212;the Son of God.</p> </div><h5>Colossians 2:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51002009.01-2">For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily,</p> </div><h5>Romans 9:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45009005.01-3">To them belong the patriarchs, and from their race, according to the flesh, is the Christ who is God over all, blessed forever. Amen.</p> </div><h5>1 Peter 3:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60003018.01-4">For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh but made alive in the spirit,</p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 3:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54003016.01-5">Great indeed, we confess, is the mystery of godliness:</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p54003016.10-5">He was manifested in the flesh,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>vindicated by the Spirit,<br /> <span class="indent-2"></span>seen by angels,<br /> proclaimed among the nations,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>believed on in the world,<br /> <span class="indent-2"></span>taken up in glory.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 1:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45001003.01-1">concerning his Son, who was descended from David according to the flesh</p> </div><h5>Romans 1:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45001004.01-2">and was declared to be the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord,</p> </div><h5>1 Timothy 2:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p54002005.01-3">For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

