---
pagetitle: How did Christ, being the Son of God, become man?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/03/22/
prev_date: Mar 22
this_url: /westminster-daily/03/23/
short_date: "0323"
this_date: Mar 23
next_url: /westminster-daily/03/24/
next_date: Mar 24
---

#### Shorter Catechism

<span class="q">Q 22.</span> How did Christ, being the Son of God, become man?

<span class="q">A.</span> Christ, the Son of God, became man, by taking to himself a true body, and a reasonable soul,[^fnref:wsc1] being conceived by the power of the Holy Ghost, in the womb of the Virgin Mary, and born of her,[^fnref:wsc2] yet without sin.[^fnref:wsc3]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Philippians 2:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50002007.01-1">but made himself nothing, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 2:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58002014.01-2">Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things, that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil,</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 2:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58002017.01-3">Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Luke 1:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42001027.01-1">to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David. And the virgin's name was Mary.</p> </div><h5>Luke 1:31</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42001031.01-2">And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus.</p> </div><h5>Luke 1:35</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42001035.01-3">And the angel answered her, &#8220;The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you; therefore the child to be born will be called holy&#8212;the Son of God.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Corinthians 5:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47005021.01-1">For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 4:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58004015.01-2">For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 7:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58007026.01-3">For it was indeed fitting that we should have such a high priest, holy, innocent, unstained, separated from sinners, and exalted above the heavens.</p> </div><h5>1 John 3:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62003005.01-4">You know that he appeared to take away sins, and in him there is no sin.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">Q 37.</span> How did Christ, being the Son of God, become man?

<span class="q">A.</span> Christ the Son of God became man, by taking to himself a true body, and a reasonable soul,[^fnref:wlc1] being conceived by the power of the Holy Ghost in the womb of the virgin Mary, of her substance, and born of her,[^fnref:wlc2] yet without sin.[^fnref:wlc3]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 1:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43001014.01-1">And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth.</p> </div><h5>Matthew 26:38</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40026038.01-2">Then he said to them, <span class="woc">&#8220;My soul is very sorrowful, even to death; remain here, and watch with me.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Philippians 2:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50002007.01-3">but made himself nothing, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 2:14-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58002014.01-4">Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things, that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil, and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham. Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people.</p> </div><h5>Luke 2:40</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42002040.01-5">And the child grew and became strong, filled with wisdom. And the favor of God was upon him.</p> </div><h5>Luke 2:52</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42002052.01-6">And Jesus increased in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and man.</p> </div><h5>John 11:33</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43011033.01-7">When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come with her also weeping, he was deeply moved in his spirit and greatly troubled.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Luke 1:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42001027.01-1">to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David. And the virgin's name was Mary.</p> </div><h5>Luke 1:31</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42001031.01-2">And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus.</p> </div><h5>Luke 1:35</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42001035.01-3">And the angel answered her, &#8220;The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you; therefore the child to be born will be called holy&#8212;the Son of God.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 4:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48004004.01-4">But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of woman, born under the law,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 4:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58004015.01-1">For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 7:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58007026.01-2">For it was indeed fitting that we should have such a high priest, holy, innocent, unstained, separated from sinners, and exalted above the heavens.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 5:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47005021.01-3">For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.</p> </div><h5>1 John 3:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62003005.01-4">You know that he appeared to take away sins, and in him there is no sin.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

