---
pagetitle: Why was it requisite that the mediator should be God?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/03/23/
prev_date: Mar 23
this_url: /westminster-daily/03/24/
this_date: Mar 24
next_url: /westminster-daily/03/25/
next_date: Mar 25
---

#### Larger Catechism

38. Why was it requisite that the Mediator should be God?

A. It was requisite that the Mediator should be God, that he might sustain and keep the human nature from sinking under the infinite wrath of God, and the power of death;[^fnref:wlc1] give worth and efficacy to his sufferings, obedience, and intercession;[^fnref:wlc2] and to satisfy God's justice,[^fnref:wlc3] procure his favor,[^fnref:wlc4] purchase a peculiar people,[^fnref:wlc5] give his Spirit to them,[^fnref:wlc6] conquer all their enemies,[^fnref:wlc7] and bring them to everlasting salvation.[^fnref:wlc8]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 2:24-25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002024.01-1">God raised him up, loosing the pangs of death, because it was not possible for him to be held by it. For David says concerning him,</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p44002025.06-1">&#8220;&#8216;I saw the Lord always before me,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for he is at my right hand that I may not be shaken;</p> </div> </div><h5>Romans 1:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45001004.01-2">and was declared to be the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord,</p> </div><h5>Romans 4:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45004025.01-3">who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 9:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58009014.01-4">how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 20:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44020028.01-1">Pay careful attention to yourselves and to all the flock, in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to care for the church of God, which he obtained with his own blood.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 9:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58009014.01-2">how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 7:25-28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58007025.01-3">Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them.</p>  <p id="p58007026.01-3">For it was indeed fitting that we should have such a high priest, holy, innocent, unstained, separated from sinners, and exalted above the heavens. He has no need, like those high priests, to offer sacrifices daily, first for his own sins and then for those of the people, since he did this once for all when he offered up himself. For the law appoints men in their weakness as high priests, but the word of the oath, which came later than the law, appoints a Son who has been made perfect forever.</p> </div><h5>John 17</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p43017001.05-4"><span class="chapter-num" id="v43017001-4">17:1&nbsp;</span>When Jesus had spoken these words, he lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, <span class="woc">&#8220;Father, the hour has come; glorify your Son that the Son may glorify you,</span> <span class="woc">since you have given him authority over all flesh, to give eternal life to all whom you have given him.</span> <span class="woc">And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent.</span> <span class="woc">I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you gave me to do.</span> <span class="woc">And now, Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existed.</span></p>  <p id="p43017006.01-4"><span class="woc">&#8220;I have manifested your name to the people whom you gave me out of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word.</span> <span class="woc">Now they know that everything that you have given me is from you.</span> <span class="woc">For I have given them the words that you gave me, and they have received them and have come to know in truth that I came from you; and they have believed that you sent me.</span> <span class="woc">I am praying for them. I am not praying for the world but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours.</span> <span class="woc">All mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them.</span> <span class="woc">And I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have given me, that they may be one, even as we are one.</span> <span class="woc">While I was with them, I kept them in your name, which you have given me. I have guarded them, and not one of them has been lost except the son of destruction, that the Scripture might be fulfilled.</span> <span class="woc">But now I am coming to you, and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves.</span> <span class="woc">I have given them your word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world.</span> <span class="woc">I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one.</span> <span class="woc">They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world.</span> <span class="woc">Sanctify them in the truth; your word is truth.</span> <span class="woc">As you sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world.</span> <span class="woc">And for their sake I consecrate myself, that they also may be sanctified in truth.</span></p>  <p id="p43017020.01-4"><span class="woc">&#8220;I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word,</span> <span class="woc">that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me.</span> <span class="woc">The glory that you have given me I have given to them, that they may be one even as we are one,</span> <span class="woc">I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you loved me.</span> <span class="woc">Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me, may be with me where I am, to see my glory that you have given me because you loved me before the foundation of the world.</span> <span class="woc">O righteous Father, even though the world does not know you, I know you, and these know that you have sent me.</span> <span class="woc">I made known to them your name, and I will continue to make it known, that the love with which you have loved me may be in them, and I in them.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 3:24-26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45003024.01-1">and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 1:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001006.01-1">to the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has blessed us in the Beloved.</p> </div><h5>Matthew 3:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40003017.01-2">and behold, a voice from heaven said, &#8220;This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Titus 2:13-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56002013.01-1">waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc6]: <div class="esv"><h5>Galatians 4:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p48004006.01-1">And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, &#8220;Abba! Father!&#8221;</p> </div><h5>John 15:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43015026.01-2"><span class="woc">&#8220;But when the Helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness about me.</span></p> </div><h5>John 16:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43016007.01-3"><span class="woc">Nevertheless, I tell you the truth: it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the Helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you.</span></p> </div><h5>John 14:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43014026.01-4"><span class="woc">But the Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc7]: <div class="esv"><h5>Luke 1:68-69</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p42001068.01-1">&#8220;Blessed be the Lord God of Israel,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for he has visited and redeemed his people<br />  and has raised up a horn of salvation for us<br /> <span class="indent"></span>in the house of his servant David,</p> </div> </div><h5>Luke 1:71</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p42001071.01-2">that we should be saved from our enemies<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and from the hand of all who hate us;</p> </div> </div><h5>Luke 1:74</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p42001074.01-3"><span class="indent"></span>that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies,<br /> might serve him without fear,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc8]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 5:8-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58005008.01-1">Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he suffered. And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation to all who obey him,</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 9:11-15</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p58009011.07-2">But when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things that have come, then through the greater and more perfect tent (not made with hands, that is, not of this creation) he entered once for all into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption. For if the blood of goats and bulls, and the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer, sanctify for the purification of the flesh, how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God.</p>  <p id="p58009015.01-2">Therefore he is the mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance, since a death has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions committed under the first covenant.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

