---
pagetitle: What offices doth Christ execute as our redeemer?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/03/28/
prev_date: Mar 28
this_url: /westminster-daily/03/29/
short_date: "0329"
this_date: Mar 29
next_url: /westminster-daily/03/30/
next_date: Mar 30
---

#### Shorter Catechism

<span class="q">Q 23.</span> What offices doth Christ execute as our redeemer?

<span class="q">A.</span> Christ, as our Redeemer, executeth the offices of a prophet,[^fnref:wsc1] of a priest,[^fnref:wsc2] and of a king,[^fnref:wsc3] both in his estate of humiliation and exaltation.


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 18:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05018018.01-1">I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers. And I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him.</p> </div><h5>Acts 2:33</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44002033.01-2">Being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing.</p> </div><h5>Acts 3:22-23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44003022.01-3">Moses said, &#8216;The Lord God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brothers. You shall listen to him in whatever he tells you. And it shall be that every soul who does not listen to that prophet shall be destroyed from the people.&#8217;</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 1:1-2</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p class="chapter-first" id="p58001001.06-4"><span class="chapter-num" id="v58001001-4">1:1&nbsp;</span>Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets, but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 4:14-15</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p58004014.06-1">Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 5:5-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58005005.01-2">So also Christ did not exalt himself to be made a high priest, but was appointed by him who said to him,</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p58005005.23-2">&#8220;You are my Son,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>today I have begotten you&#8221;;</p> </div>  <p class="same-paragraph" id="p58005006.01-2">as he says also in another place,</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p58005006.08-2">&#8220;You are a priest forever,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>after the order of Melchizedek.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Isaiah 9:6-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23009006.01-1">For to us a child is born,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to us a son is given;<br /> and the government shall be upon his shoulder,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and his name shall be called<br /> Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.<br />  Of the increase of his government and of peace<br /> <span class="indent"></span>there will be no end,<br /> on the throne of David and over his kingdom,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to establish it and to uphold it<br /> with justice and with righteousness<br /> <span class="indent"></span>from this time forth and forevermore.<br /> The zeal of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> of hosts will do this.</p> </div> </div><h5>Luke 1:32-33</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42001032.01-2">He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>John 18:37</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43018037.01-3">Then Pilate said to him, &#8220;So you are a king?&#8221; Jesus answered, <span class="woc">&#8220;You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose I have come into the world&#8212;to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 15:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46015025.01-4">For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">Q 42.</span> Why was our Mediator called Christ?

<span class="q">A.</span> Our Mediator was called Christ, because he was anointed with the Holy Ghost above measure;[^fnref:wlc1] and so set apart, and fully furnished with all authority and ability,[^fnref:wlc2] to execute the offices of prophet,[^fnref:wlc3] priest,[^fnref:wlc4] and king of his church,[^fnref:wlc5] in the estate both of his humiliation and exaltation.


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 3:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40003016.01-1">And when Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him;</p> </div><h5>Acts 10:37-38</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44010037.01-2">you yourselves know what happened throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee after the baptism that John proclaimed: how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power. He went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him.</p> </div><h5>John 3:34</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43003034.01-3">For he whom God has sent utters the words of God, for he gives the Spirit without measure.</p> </div><h5>Psalm 45:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19045007.01-4"><span class="indent"></span>you have loved righteousness and hated wickedness.<br /> Therefore God, your God, has anointed you<br /> <span class="indent"></span>with the oil of gladness beyond your companions;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 6:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43006027.01-1"><span class="woc">Do not labor for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him God the Father has set his seal.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 28:18-20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40028018.01-2">And Jesus came and said to them, <span class="woc">&#8220;All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me.</span> <span class="woc">Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,</span> <span class="woc">teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Romans 1:3-4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45001003.01-3">concerning his Son, who was descended from David according to the flesh and was declared to be the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 3:21-22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44003021.01-1">whom heaven must receive until the time for restoring all the things about which God spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets long ago. Moses said, &#8216;The Lord God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brothers. You shall listen to him in whatever he tells you.</p> </div><h5>Luke 4:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p42004018.01-2"><span class="woc">&#8220;The Spirit of the Lord is upon me,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>because he has anointed me<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to proclaim good news to the poor.<br /> He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and recovering of sight to the blind,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to set at liberty those who are oppressed,</span></p> </div> </div><h5>Luke 4:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42004021.01-3">And he began to say to them, <span class="woc">&#8220;Today this Scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Hebrews 1:1-2</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p class="chapter-first" id="p58001001.06-4"><span class="chapter-num" id="v58001001-4">1:1&nbsp;</span>Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets, but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world.</p> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 18:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05018018.01-5">I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers. And I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 5:5-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58005005.01-1">So also Christ did not exalt himself to be made a high priest, but was appointed by him who said to him,</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p58005005.23-1">&#8220;You are my Son,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>today I have begotten you&#8221;;</p> </div>  <p class="same-paragraph" id="p58005006.01-1">as he says also in another place,</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p58005006.08-1">&#8220;You are a priest forever,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>after the order of Melchizedek.&#8221;</p> </div>  <p id="p58005007.01-1">In the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and supplications, with loud cries and tears, to him who was able to save him from death, and he was heard because of his reverence.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 4:14-15</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p58004014.06-2">Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 2:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19002006.01-1">&#8220;As for me, I have set my King<br /> <span class="indent"></span>on Zion, my holy hill.&#8221;</p> </div> </div><h5>Luke 1:32-34</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42001032.01-2">He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end.&#8221;</p>  <p id="p42001034.01-2">And Mary said to the angel, &#8220;How will this be, since I am a virgin?&#8221;</p> </div><h5>John 18:37</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43018037.01-3">Then Pilate said to him, &#8220;So you are a king?&#8221; Jesus answered, <span class="woc">&#8220;You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born and for this purpose I have come into the world&#8212;to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 21:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p40021005.01-4">&#8220;Say to the daughter of Zion,<br /> &#8216;Behold, your king is coming to you,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>humble, and mounted on a donkey,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and on a colt, the foal of a beast of burden.&#8217;&#8221;</p> </div> </div><h5>Isaiah 9:6-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23009006.01-5">For to us a child is born,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to us a son is given;<br /> and the government shall be upon his shoulder,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and his name shall be called<br /> Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.<br />  Of the increase of his government and of peace<br /> <span class="indent"></span>there will be no end,<br /> on the throne of David and over his kingdom,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to establish it and to uphold it<br /> with justice and with righteousness<br /> <span class="indent"></span>from this time forth and forevermore.<br /> The zeal of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> of hosts will do this.</p> </div> </div><h5>Philippians 2:8-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50002008.01-6">And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

