---
pagetitle: How doth Christ execute the office of a prophet?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/03/29/
prev_date: Mar 29
this_url: /westminster-daily/03/30/
short_date: "0330"
this_date: Mar 30
next_url: /westminster-daily/03/31/
next_date: Mar 31
---

#### Shorter Catechism

<span class="q">24.</span> How doth Christ execute the office of a prophet?

<span class="q">A.</span> Christ executeth the office of a prophet, in revealing to us, by his Word[^fnref:wsc1] and Spirit,[^fnref:wsc2] the will of God for our salvation.[^fnref:wsc3]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Luke 4:18-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p42004018.01-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;The Spirit of the Lord is upon me,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>because he has anointed me<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to proclaim good news to the poor.<br /> He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and recovering of sight to the blind,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to set at liberty those who are oppressed,</span><br />  <span class="woc">to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor.&#8221;</span></p> </div> </div><h5>Luke 4:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42004021.01-2">And he began to say to them, <span class="woc">&#8220;Today this Scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Acts 1:1-2</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p class="chapter-first" id="p44001001.07-3"><span class="chapter-num" id="v44001001-3">1:1&nbsp;</span>In the first book, O Theophilus, I have dealt with all that Jesus began to do and teach, until the day when he was taken up, after he had given commands through the Holy Spirit to the apostles whom he had chosen.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 2:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58002003.01-4">how shall we escape if we neglect such a great salvation? It was declared at first by the Lord, and it was attested to us by those who heard,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 15:26-27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43015026.01-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;But when the Helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness about me.</span> <span class="woc">And you also will bear witness, because you have been with me from the beginning.</span></p> </div><h5>Acts 1:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44001008.01-2"><span class="woc">But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>1 Peter 1:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60001011.01-3">inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wsc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 4:41-42</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43004041.01-1">And many more believed because of his word. They said to the woman, &#8220;It is no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves, and we know that this is indeed the Savior of the world.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>John 20:30-31</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p43020030.06-2">Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book; but these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">43.</span> How doth Christ execute the office of a prophet?

<span class="q">A.</span> Christ executeth the office of a prophet, in his revealing to the church,[^fnref:wlc1] in all ages, by his Spirit and Word,[^fnref:wlc2] in divers ways of administration,[^fnref:wlc3] the whole will of God,[^fnref:wlc4] in all things concerning their edification and salvation.[^fnref:wlc5]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 1:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43001018.01-1">No one has ever seen God; the only God, who is at the Father's side, he has made him known.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Peter 1:10-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60001010.01-1">Concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully, inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories. It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves but you, in the things that have now been announced to you through those who preached the good news to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven, things into which angels long to look.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 1:1-2</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p class="chapter-first" id="p58001001.06-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v58001001-1">1:1&nbsp;</span>Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets, but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 15:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43015015.01-1"><span class="woc">No longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing; but I have called you friends, for all that I have heard from my Father I have made known to you.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Acts 20:32</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44020032.01-1">And now I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 4:11-13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49004011.01-2">And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds and teachers, to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ, until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ,</p> </div><h5>John 20:31</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43020031.01-3">but these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

