---
pagetitle: Of good works, part 3
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/06/04/
prev_date: Jun 4
this_url: /westminster-daily/06/05/
short_date: 0605
this_date: Jun 5
next_url: /westminster-daily/06/06/
next_date: Jun 6
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 16: Of Good Works

3\. Their ability to do good works is not at all of themselves, but wholly from the Spirit of Christ.[^fnref:wcf1] And that they may be enabled thereunto, beside the graces they have already received, there is required an actual influence of the same Holy Spirit, to work in them to will, and to do, of his good pleasure:[^fnref:wcf2] yet are they not hereupon to grow negligent, as if they were not bound to perform any duty unless upon a special motion of the Spirit; but they ought to be diligent in stirring up the grace of God that is in them.[^fnref:wcf3]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 15:4-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43015004.01-1"><span class="woc">Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me.</span> <span class="woc">I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing.</span> <span class="woc">If anyone does not abide in me he is thrown away like a branch and withers; and the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire, and burned.</span></p> </div><h5>Ezekiel 36:26-27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p26036026.01-2">And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Philippians 2:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50002013.01-1">for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure.</p> </div><h5>Philippians 4:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50004013.01-2">I can do all things through him who strengthens me.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 3:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47003005.01-3">Not that we are sufficient in ourselves to claim anything as coming from us, but our sufficiency is from God,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Philippians 2:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p50002012.05-1">Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now, not only as in my presence but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling,</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 6:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58006011.01-2">And we desire each one of you to show the same earnestness to have the full assurance of hope until the end, so that you may not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises.</p> </div><h5>2 Peter 1:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p61001003.07-3">His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence,</p> </div><h5>2 Peter 1:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p61001005.01-4">For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge,</p> </div><h5>2 Peter 1:10-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p61001010.01-5">Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to make your calling and election sure, for if you practice these qualities you will never fall. For in this way there will be richly provided for you an entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.</p> </div><h5>Isaiah 64:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23064007.01-6">There is no one who calls upon your name,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>who rouses himself to take hold of you;<br /> for you have hidden your face from us,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and have made us melt in the hand of our iniquities.</p> </div> </div><h5>2 Timothy 1:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p55001006.01-7">For this reason I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God, which is in you through the laying on of my hands,</p> </div><h5>Acts 26:6-7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44026006.01-8">And now I stand here on trial because of my hope in the promise made by God to our fathers, to which our twelve tribes hope to attain, as they earnestly worship night and day. And for this hope I am accused by Jews, O king!</p> </div><h5>Jude 1:20-21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p65001020.01-9">But you, beloved, building yourselves up in your most holy faith and praying in the Holy Spirit, keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

