---
pagetitle: Of good works, part 6
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/06/07/
prev_date: Jun 7
this_url: /westminster-daily/06/08/
short_date: "0608"
this_date: Jun 8
next_url: /westminster-daily/06/09/
next_date: Jun 9
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 16: Of Good Works

<span class="q">6.</span> Notwithstanding, the persons of believers being accepted through Christ, their good works also are accepted in him;[^fnref:wcf1] not as though they were in this life wholly unblamable and unreprovable in God's sight;[^fnref:wcf2] but that he, looking upon them in his Son, is pleased to accept and reward that which is sincere, although accompanied with many weaknesses and imperfections.[^fnref:wcf3]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 1:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001006.01-1">to the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has blessed us in the Beloved.</p> </div><h5>1 Peter 2:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60002005.01-2">you yourselves like living stones are being built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.</p> </div><h5>Exodus 28:38</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p02028038.01-3">It shall be on Aaron's forehead, and Aaron shall bear any guilt from the holy things that the people of Israel consecrate as their holy gifts. It shall regularly be on his forehead, that they may be accepted before the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.</p> </div><h5>Genesis 4:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01004004.01-4">and Abel also brought of the firstborn of his flock and of their fat portions. And the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> had regard for Abel and his offering,</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 11:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58011004.01-5">By faith Abel offered to God a more acceptable sacrifice than Cain, through which he was commended as righteous, God commending him by accepting his gifts. And through his faith, though he died, he still speaks.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Job 9:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p18009020.01-1">Though I am in the right, my own mouth would condemn me;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>though I am blameless, he would prove me perverse.</p> </div> </div><h5>Psalm 143:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19143002.01-2">Enter not into judgment with your servant,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>for no one living is righteous before you.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 13:20-21</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p58013020.02-1">Now may the God of peace who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the eternal covenant, equip you with everything good that you may do his will, working in us that which is pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 8:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47008012.01-2">For if the readiness is there, it is acceptable according to what a person has, not according to what he does not have.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 6:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58006010.01-3">For God is not unjust so as to overlook your work and the love that you have shown for his name in serving the saints, as you still do.</p> </div><h5>Matthew 25:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40025021.01-4"><span class="woc">His master said to him, &#8216;Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little; I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master.&#8217;</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 25:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40025023.01-5"><span class="woc">His master said to him, &#8216;Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little; I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master.&#8217;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

