---
pagetitle: Of good works, part 7
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/06/08/
prev_date: Jun 8
this_url: /westminster-daily/06/09/
this_date: Jun 9
next_url: /westminster-daily/06/10/
next_date: Jun 10
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 16: Of Good Works

7. Works done by unregenerate men, although for the matter of them they may be things which God commands; and of good use both to themselves and others:[^fnref:wcf1] yet, because they proceed not from an heart purified by faith;[^fnref:wcf2] nor are done in a right manner, according to the Word;[^fnref:wcf3] nor to a right end, the glory of God,[^fnref:wcf4] they are therefore sinful, and cannot please God, or make a man meet to receive grace from God:[^fnref:wcf5] and yet, their neglect of them is more sinful and displeasing unto God.[^fnref:wcf6]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Kings 10:30-31</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p12010030.01-1">And the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> said to Jehu, &#8220;Because you have done well in carrying out what is right in my eyes, and have done to the house of Ahab according to all that was in my heart, your sons of the fourth generation shall sit on the throne of Israel.&#8221; But Jehu was not careful to walk in the law of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, the God of Israel, with all his heart. He did not turn from the sins of Jeroboam, which he made Israel to sin.</p> </div><h5>1 Kings 21:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p11021027.01-2">And when Ahab heard those words, he tore his clothes and put sackcloth on his flesh and fasted and lay in sackcloth and went about dejectedly.</p> </div><h5>1 Kings 21:29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p11021029.01-3">&#8220;Have you seen how Ahab has humbled himself before me? Because he has humbled himself before me, I will not bring the disaster in his days; but in his son's days I will bring the disaster upon his house.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Philippians 1:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50001015.01-4">Some indeed preach Christ from envy and rivalry, but others from good will.</p> </div><h5>Philippians 1:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50001016.01-5">The latter do it out of love, knowing that I am put here for the defense of the gospel.</p> </div><h5>Philippians 1:18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p50001018.01-6">What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in that I rejoice.</p>  <p id="p50001018.26-6">Yes, and I will rejoice,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 4:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01004005.01-1">but for Cain and his offering he had no regard. So Cain was very angry, and his face fell.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 11:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58011004.01-2">By faith Abel offered to God a more acceptable sacrifice than Cain, through which he was commended as righteous, God commending him by accepting his gifts. And through his faith, though he died, he still speaks.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 11:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58011006.01-3">And without faith it is impossible to please him, for whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who seek him.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 13:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46013003.01-1">If I give away all I have, and if I deliver up my body to be burned, but have not love, I gain nothing.</p> </div><h5>Isaiah 1:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p23001012.01-2">&#8220;When you come to appear before me,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>who has required of you<br /> <span class="indent"></span>this trampling of my courts?  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 6:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p class="chapter-first" id="p40006002.01-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;Thus, when you give to the needy, sound no trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may be praised by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward.</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 6:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40006005.04-2"><span class="woc">&#8220;And when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites. For they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the street corners, that they may be seen by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward.</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 6:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40006016.02-3"><span class="woc">&#8220;And when you fast, do not look gloomy like the hypocrites, for they disfigure their faces that their fasting may be seen by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Haggai 2:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p37002014.01-1">Then Haggai answered and said, &#8220;So is it with this people, and with this nation before me, declares the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, and so with every work of their hands. And what they offer there is unclean.</p> </div><h5>Titus 1:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56001015.01-2">To the pure, all things are pure, but to the defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure; but both their minds and their consciences are defiled.</p> </div><h5>Amos 5:21-22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p30005021.01-3">&#8220;I hate, I despise your feasts,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and I take no delight in your solemn assemblies.<br />  Even though you offer me your burnt offerings and grain offerings,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>I will not accept them;<br /> and the peace offerings of your fattened animals,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>I will not look upon them.</p> </div> </div><h5>Hosea 1:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p28001004.01-4">And the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> said to him, &#8220;Call his name Jezreel, for in just a little while I will punish the house of Jehu for the blood of Jezreel, and I will put an end to the kingdom of the house of Israel.</p> </div><h5>Romans 9:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45009016.01-5">So then it depends not on human will or exertion, but on God, who has mercy.</p> </div><h5>Titus 3:15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56003015.01-6">All who are with me send greetings to you. Greet those who love us in the faith.</p> <p id="p56003015.18-6">Grace be with you all.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf6]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 14:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19014004.01-1">Have they no knowledge, all the evildoers<br /> <span class="indent"></span>who eat up my people as they eat bread<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and do not call upon the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>?</p> </div> </div><h5>Psalm 36:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19036003.01-2">The words of his mouth are trouble and deceit;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>he has ceased to act wisely and do good.</p> </div> </div><h5>Job 21:14-15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p18021014.01-3">They say to God, &#8216;Depart from us!<br /> <span class="indent"></span>We do not desire the knowledge of your ways.<br />  What is the Almighty, that we should serve him?<br /> <span class="indent"></span>And what profit do we get if we pray to him?&#8217;</p> </div> </div><h5>Matthew 25:41-43</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40025041.01-4"><span class="woc">&#8220;Then he will say to those on his left, &#8216;Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels.</span> <span class="woc">For I was hungry and you gave me no food, I was thirsty and you gave me no drink,</span> <span class="woc">I was a stranger and you did not welcome me, naked and you did not clothe me, sick and in prison and you did not visit me.&#8217;</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 25:45</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40025045.01-5"><span class="woc">Then he will answer them, saying, &#8216;Truly, I say to you, as you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to me.&#8217;</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 23:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40023023.01-6"><span class="woc">&#8220;Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you tithe mint and dill and cumin, and have neglected the weightier matters of the law: justice and mercy and faithfulness. These you ought to have done, without neglecting the others.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

