---
pagetitle: Of the perseverance of the saints, part 2
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/06/11/
prev_date: Jun 11
this_url: /westminster-daily/06/12/
short_date: "0612"
this_date: Jun 12
next_url: /westminster-daily/06/13/
next_date: Jun 13
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 17: Of the Perseverance of the Saints

<span class="q">2.</span> This perseverance of the saints depends not upon their own free will, but upon the immutability of the decree of election, flowing from the free and unchangeable love of God the Father;[^fnref:wcf1] upon the efficacy of the merit and intercession of Jesus Christ,[^fnref:wcf2] the abiding of the Spirit, and of the seed of God within them,[^fnref:wcf3] and the nature of the covenant of grace:[^fnref:wcf4] from all which ariseth also the certainty and infallibility thereof.[^fnref:wcf5]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Timothy 2:18-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p55002018.01-1">who have swerved from the truth, saying that the resurrection has already happened. They are upsetting the faith of some. But God's firm foundation stands, bearing this seal: &#8220;The Lord knows those who are his,&#8221; and, &#8220;Let everyone who names the name of the Lord depart from iniquity.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Jeremiah 31:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p24031003.01-2"><span class="indent"></span>the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> appeared to him from far away.<br /> I have loved you with an everlasting love;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>therefore I have continued my faithfulness to you.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 10:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58010010.01-1">And by that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 10:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58010014.01-2">For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 13:20-21</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p58013020.02-3">Now may the God of peace who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the eternal covenant, equip you with everything good that you may do his will, working in us that which is pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 9:12-15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58009012.01-4">he entered once for all into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption. For if the blood of goats and bulls, and the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer, sanctify for the purification of the flesh, how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God.</p>  <p id="p58009015.01-4">Therefore he is the mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance, since a death has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions committed under the first covenant.</p> </div><h5>Romans 8:33-39</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008033.01-5">Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died&#8212;more than that, who was raised&#8212;who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword? As it is written,</p> <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p45008036.05-5">&#8220;For your sake we are being killed all the day long;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>we are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered.&#8221;</p> </div>  <p class="same-paragraph" id="p45008037.01-5">No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present nor things to come, nor powers, nor height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord.</p> </div><h5>John 17:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43017011.01-6"><span class="woc">And I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have given me, that they may be one, even as we are one.</span></p> </div><h5>John 17:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43017024.01-7"><span class="woc">Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me, may be with me where I am, to see my glory that you have given me because you loved me before the foundation of the world.</span></p> </div><h5>Luke 22:32</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42022032.01-8"><span class="woc">but I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned again, strengthen your brothers.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Hebrews 7:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58007025.01-9">Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 14:16-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43014016.01-1"><span class="woc">And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you forever,</span> <span class="woc">even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you.</span></p> </div><h5>1 John 2:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62002027.01-2">But the anointing that you received from him abides in you, and you have no need that anyone should teach you. But as his anointing teaches you about everything, and is true, and is no lie&#8212;just as it has taught you, abide in him.</p> </div><h5>1 John 3:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62003009.01-3">No one born of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed abides in him, and he cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of God.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Jeremiah 32:40</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p24032040.01-1">I will make with them an everlasting covenant, that I will not turn away from doing good to them. And I will put the fear of me in their hearts, that they may not turn from me.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf5]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 10:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43010028.01-1"><span class="woc">I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand.</span></p> </div><h5>2 Thessalonians 3:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p53003003.01-2">But the Lord is faithful. He will establish you and guard you against the evil one.</p> </div><h5>1 John 2:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62002019.01-3">They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they would have continued with us. But they went out, that it might become plain that they all are not of us.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

