---
pagetitle: Can true believers be infallibly assured that they are in the estate of grace?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/06/14/
prev_date: Jun 14
this_url: /westminster-daily/06/15/
this_date: Jun 15
next_url: /westminster-daily/06/16/
next_date: Jun 16
---

#### Larger Catechism

80. Can true believers be infallibly assured that they are in the estate of grace, and that they shall persevere therein unto salvation?

A. Such as truly believe in Christ, and endeavor to walk in all good conscience before him,[^fnref:wlc1] may, without extraordinary revelation, by faith grounded upon the truth of God's promises, and by the Spirit enabling them to discern in themselves those graces to which the promises of life are made,[^fnref:wlc2] and bearing witness with their spirits that they are the children of God,[^fnref:wlc3] be infallibly assured that they are in the estate of grace, and shall persevere therein unto salvation.[^fnref:wlc4]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 John 2:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62002003.01-1">And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we keep his commandments.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 10:19-23</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p58010019.06-2">Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that he opened for us through the curtain, that is, through his flesh, and since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 2:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46002012.01-1">Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might understand the things freely given us by God.</p> </div><h5>1 John 3:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62003014.01-2">We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brothers. Whoever does not love abides in death.</p> </div><h5>1 John 3:18-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62003018.01-3">Little children, let us not love in word or talk but in deed and in truth.</p>  <p id="p62003019.01-3">By this we shall know that we are of the truth and reassure our heart before him;</p> </div><h5>1 John 3:21</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62003021.01-4">Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence before God;</p> </div><h5>1 John 3:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62003024.01-5">Whoever keeps his commandments abides in God, and God in him. And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit whom he has given us.</p> </div><h5>1 John 4:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62004013.01-6">By this we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he has given us of his Spirit.</p> </div><h5>1 John 4:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62004016.01-7">So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 6:11-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58006011.01-8">And we desire each one of you to show the same earnestness to have the full assurance of hope until the end, so that you may not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 8:15-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008015.01-1">For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the Spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, &#8220;Abba! Father!&#8221; The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc4]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 John 5:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p62005013.05-1">I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know that you have eternal life.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 6:19-20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58006019.01-2">We have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain, where Jesus has gone as a forerunner on our behalf, having become a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek.</p> </div><h5>2 Peter 1:5-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p61001005.01-3">For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection with love. For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they keep you from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. For whoever lacks these qualities is so nearsighted that he is blind, having forgotten that he was cleansed from his former sins. Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to make your calling and election sure, for if you practice these qualities you will never fall. For in this way there will be richly provided for you an entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

