---
pagetitle: Of the assurance of grace and salvation, part 2
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/06/15/
prev_date: Jun 15
this_url: /westminster-daily/06/16/
this_date: Jun 16
next_url: /westminster-daily/06/17/
next_date: Jun 17
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 18: Of the Assurance of Grace and Salvation

2. This certainty is not a bare conjectural and probable persuasion grounded upon a fallible hope;[^fnref:wcf1] but an infallible assurance of faith founded upon the divine truth of the promises of salvation,[^fnref:wcf2] the inward evidence of those graces unto which these promises are made,[^fnref:wcf3] the testimony of the Spirit of adoption witnessing with our spirits that we are the children of God,[^fnref:wcf4] which Spirit is the earnest of our inheritance, whereby we are sealed to the day of redemption.[^fnref:wcf5]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 6:11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58006011.01-1">And we desire each one of you to show the same earnestness to have the full assurance of hope until the end,</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 6:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58006019.01-2">We have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 6:17-18</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58006017.01-1">So when God desired to show more convincingly to the heirs of the promise the unchangeable character of his purpose, he guaranteed it with an oath, so that by two unchangeable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we who have fled for refuge might have strong encouragement to hold fast to the hope set before us.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Peter 1:4-5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p61001004.01-1">by which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire. For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge,</p> </div><h5>2 Peter 1:10-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p61001010.01-2">Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to make your calling and election sure, for if you practice these qualities you will never fall. For in this way there will be richly provided for you an entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.</p> </div><h5>1 John 2:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62002003.01-3">And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we keep his commandments.</p> </div><h5>1 John 3:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62003014.01-4">We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brothers. Whoever does not love abides in death.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 1:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p47001012.05-5">For our boast is this, the testimony of our conscience, that we behaved in the world with simplicity and godly sincerity, not by earthly wisdom but by the grace of God, and supremely so toward you.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 8:15-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008015.01-1">For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the Spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, &#8220;Abba! Father!&#8221; The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 1:13-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001013.01-1">In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 4:30</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49004030.01-2">And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 1:21-22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47001021.01-3">And it is God who establishes us with you in Christ, and has anointed us, and who has also put his seal on us and given us his Spirit in our hearts as a guarantee.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

