---
pagetitle: What did God at first reveal to man for the rule of his obedience?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/06/21/
prev_date: Jun 21
this_url: /westminster-daily/06/22/
short_date: "0622"
this_date: Jun 22
next_url: /westminster-daily/06/23/
next_date: Jun 23
---

#### Shorter Catechism

<span class="q">40.</span> What did God at first reveal to man for the rule of his obedience?

<span class="q">A.</span> The rule which God at first revealed to man for his obedience, was the moral law.[^fnref:wsc1]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 2:14-15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45002014.01-1">For when Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do what the law requires, they are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law. They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse them</p> </div><h5>Romans 10:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45010005.07-2">For Moses writes about the righteousness that is based on the law, that the person who does the commandments shall live by them.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

<span class="q">92.</span> What did God at first reveal unto man as the rule of his obedience?

<span class="q">A.</span> The rule of obedience revealed to Adam in the estate of innocence, and to all mankind in him, besides a special command not to eat of the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, was the moral law.[^fnref:wlc1]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 1:26-27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01001026.01-1">Then God said, &#8220;Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over the livestock and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth.&#8221;</p>  <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p01001027.01-1">So God created man in his own image,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>in the image of God he created him;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>male and female he created them.</p> </div> </div><h5>Romans 2:14-15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45002014.01-2">For when Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do what the law requires, they are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law. They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse them</p> </div><h5>Romans 10:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45010005.07-3">For Moses writes about the righteousness that is based on the law, that the person who does the commandments shall live by them.</p> </div><h5>Genesis 2:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01002017.01-4">but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

