---
pagetitle: Of the law of God, part 2
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/06/23/
prev_date: Jun 23
this_url: /westminster-daily/06/24/
this_date: Jun 24
next_url: /westminster-daily/06/25/
next_date: Jun 25
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 19: Of the Law of God

2. This law, after his fall, continued to be a perfect rule of righteousness; and, as such, was delivered by God upon Mount Sinai, in ten commandments, and written in two tables:[^fnref:wcf1] the first four commandments containing our duty towards God; and the other six, our duty to man.[^fnref:wcf2]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>James 1:25</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p59001025.01-1">But the one who looks into the perfect law, the law of liberty, and perseveres, being no hearer who forgets but a doer who acts, he will be blessed in his doing.</p> </div><h5>James 2:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p59002008.01-2">If you really fulfill the royal law according to the Scripture, &#8220;You shall love your neighbor as yourself,&#8221; you are doing well.</p> </div><h5>James 2:10-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p59002010.01-3">For whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has become accountable for all of it. For he who said, &#8220;Do not commit adultery,&#8221; also said, &#8220;Do not murder.&#8221; If you do not commit adultery but do murder, you have become a transgressor of the law. So speak and so act as those who are to be judged under the law of liberty.</p> </div><h5>Romans 13:8-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45013008.06-4">Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one who loves another has fulfilled the law. For the commandments, &#8220;You shall not commit adultery, You shall not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not covet,&#8221; and any other commandment, are summed up in this word: &#8220;You shall love your neighbor as yourself.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 5:32</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05005032.01-5">You shall be careful therefore to do as the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> your God has commanded you. You shall not turn aside to the right hand or to the left.</p> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 10:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05010004.01-6">And he wrote on the tablets, in the same writing as before, the Ten Commandments that the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> had spoken to you on the mountain out of the midst of the fire on the day of the assembly. And the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> gave them to me.</p> </div><h5>Exodus 24:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p02024001.04-7"><span class="chapter-num" id="v02024001-7">24:1&nbsp;</span>Then he said to Moses, &#8220;Come up to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, you and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel, and worship from afar.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 22:37-40</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40022037.01-1">And he said to him, <span class="woc">&#8220;You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind.</span> <span class="woc">This is the great and first commandment.</span> <span class="woc">And a second is like it: You shall love your neighbor as yourself.</span> <span class="woc">On these two commandments depend all the Law and the Prophets.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

