---
pagetitle: Where is the moral law summarily comprehended?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/06/24/
prev_date: Jun 24
this_url: /westminster-daily/06/25/
this_date: Jun 25
next_url: /westminster-daily/06/26/
next_date: Jun 26
---

#### Shorter Catechism

41\. Where is the moral law summarily comprehended?

A. The moral law is summarily comprehended in the Ten Commandments.[^fnref:wsc1]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 4:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05004013.01-1">And he declared to you his covenant, which he commanded you to perform, that is, the Ten Commandments, and he wrote them on two tablets of stone.</p> </div><h5>Matthew 19:17-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40019017.01-2">And he said to him, <span class="woc">&#8220;Why do you ask me about what is good? There is only one who is good. If you would enter life, keep the commandments.&#8221;</span> He said to him, &#8220;Which ones?&#8221; And Jesus said, <span class="woc">&#8220;You shall not murder, You shall not commit adultery, You shall not steal, You shall not bear false witness,</span> <span class="woc">Honor your father and mother, and, You shall love your neighbor as yourself.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

98\. Where is the moral law summarily comprehended?

A. The moral law is summarily comprehended in the Ten Commandments, which were delivered by the voice of God upon Mount Sinai, and written by him in two tables of stone;[^fnref:wlc1] and are recorded in the twentieth chapter of Exodus: the four first commandments containing our duty to God, and the other six our duty to man.[^fnref:wlc2]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Deuteronomy 4:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05004013.01-1">And he declared to you his covenant, which he commanded you to perform, that is, the Ten Commandments, and he wrote them on two tablets of stone.</p> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 10:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05010004.01-2">And he wrote on the tablets, in the same writing as before, the Ten Commandments that the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> had spoken to you on the mountain out of the midst of the fire on the day of the assembly. And the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> gave them to me.</p> </div><h5>Exodus 34:1-4</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p02034001.05-3"><span class="chapter-num" id="v02034001-3">34:1&nbsp;</span>The <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> said to Moses, &#8220;Cut for yourself two tablets of stone like the first, and I will write on the tablets the words that were on the first tablets, which you broke. Be ready by the morning, and come up in the morning to Mount Sinai, and present yourself there to me on the top of the mountain. No one shall come up with you, and let no one be seen throughout all the mountain. Let no flocks or herds graze opposite that mountain.&#8221; So Moses cut two tablets of stone like the first. And he rose early in the morning and went up on Mount Sinai, as the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> had commanded him, and took in his hand two tablets of stone.</p> </div><h5>Romans 13:8-10</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45013008.06-4">Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one who loves another has fulfilled the law. For the commandments, &#8220;You shall not commit adultery, You shall not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not covet,&#8221; and any other commandment, are summed up in this word: &#8220;You shall love your neighbor as yourself.&#8221; Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is the fulfilling of the law.</p> </div><h5>James 2:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p59002008.01-5">If you really fulfill the royal law according to the Scripture, &#8220;You shall love your neighbor as yourself,&#8221; you are doing well.</p> </div><h5>James 2:10-12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p59002010.01-6">For whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has become accountable for all of it. For he who said, &#8220;Do not commit adultery,&#8221; also said, &#8220;Do not murder.&#8221; If you do not commit adultery but do murder, you have become a transgressor of the law. So speak and so act as those who are to be judged under the law of liberty.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wlc2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 22:37-40</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40022037.01-1">And he said to him, <span class="woc">&#8220;You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind.</span> <span class="woc">This is the great and first commandment.</span> <span class="woc">And a second is like it: You shall love your neighbor as yourself.</span> <span class="woc">On these two commandments depend all the Law and the Prophets.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 19:17-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40019017.01-2">And he said to him, <span class="woc">&#8220;Why do you ask me about what is good? There is only one who is good. If you would enter life, keep the commandments.&#8221;</span> He said to him, &#8220;Which ones?&#8221; And Jesus said, <span class="woc">&#8220;You shall not murder, You shall not commit adultery, You shall not steal, You shall not bear false witness,</span> <span class="woc">Honor your father and mother, and, You shall love your neighbor as yourself.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

