---
pagetitle: Of the law of God, part 3
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/06/25/
prev_date: Jun 25
this_url: /westminster-daily/06/26/
short_date: 0626
this_date: Jun 26
next_url: /westminster-daily/06/27/
next_date: Jun 27
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 19: Of the Law of God

3\. Beside this law, commonly called moral, God was pleased to give to the people of Israel, as a church under age, ceremonial laws, containing several typical ordinances, partly of worship, prefiguring Christ, his graces, actions, sufferings, and benefits;[^fnref:wcf1] and partly, holding forth divers instructions of moral duties.[^fnref:wcf2] All which ceremonial laws are now abrogated, under the new testament.[^fnref:wcf3]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 9</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p58009001.05-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v58009001-1">9:1&nbsp;</span>Now even the first covenant had regulations for worship and an earthly place of holiness. For a tent was prepared, the first section, in which were the lampstand and the table and the bread of the Presence. It is called the Holy Place. Behind the second curtain was a second section called the Most Holy Place, having the golden altar of incense and the ark of the covenant covered on all sides with gold, in which was a golden urn holding the manna, and Aaron's staff that budded, and the tablets of the covenant. Above it were the cherubim of glory overshadowing the mercy seat. Of these things we cannot now speak in detail.</p>  <p id="p58009006.01-1">These preparations having thus been made, the priests go regularly into the first section, performing their ritual duties, but into the second only the high priest goes, and he but once a year, and not without taking blood, which he offers for himself and for the unintentional sins of the people. By this the Holy Spirit indicates that the way into the holy places is not yet opened as long as the first section is still standing (which is symbolic for the present age). According to this arrangement, gifts and sacrifices are offered that cannot perfect the conscience of the worshiper, but deal only with food and drink and various washings, regulations for the body imposed until the time of reformation.</p>   <p id="p58009011.07-1">But when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things that have come, then through the greater and more perfect tent (not made with hands, that is, not of this creation) he entered once for all into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption. For if the blood of goats and bulls, and the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer, sanctify for the purification of the flesh, how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God.</p>  <p id="p58009015.01-1">Therefore he is the mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance, since a death has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions committed under the first covenant. For where a will is involved, the death of the one who made it must be established. For a will takes effect only at death, since it is not in force as long as the one who made it is alive. Therefore not even the first covenant was inaugurated without blood. For when every commandment of the law had been declared by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of calves and goats, with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people, saying, &#8220;This is the blood of the covenant that God commanded for you.&#8221; And in the same way he sprinkled with the blood both the tent and all the vessels used in worship. Indeed, under the law almost everything is purified with blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins.</p>  <p id="p58009023.01-1">Thus it was necessary for the copies of the heavenly things to be purified with these rites, but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these. For Christ has entered, not into holy places made with hands, which are copies of the true things, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf. Nor was it to offer himself repeatedly, as the high priest enters the holy places every year with blood not his own, for then he would have had to suffer repeatedly since the foundation of the world. But as it is, he has appeared once for all at the end of the ages to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. And just as it is appointed for man to die once, and after that comes judgment, so Christ, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, not to deal with sin but to save those who are eagerly waiting for him.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 10:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p58010001.06-2"><span class="chapter-num" id="v58010001-2">10:1&nbsp;</span>For since the law has but a shadow of the good things to come instead of the true form of these realities, it can never, by the same sacrifices that are continually offered every year, make perfect those who draw near.</p> </div><h5>Galatians 4:1-3</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p48004001.04-3"><span class="chapter-num" id="v48004001-3">4:1&nbsp;</span>I mean that the heir, as long as he is a child, is no different from a slave, though he is the owner of everything, but he is under guardians and managers until the date set by his father. In the same way we also, when we were children, were enslaved to the elementary principles of the world.</p> </div><h5>Colossians 2:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51002017.01-4">These are a shadow of the things to come, but the substance belongs to Christ.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Corinthians 5:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46005007.01-1">Cleanse out the old leaven that you may be a new lump, as you really are unleavened. For Christ, our Passover lamb, has been sacrificed.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 6:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p47006017.01-2">Therefore go out from their midst,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and be separate from them, says the Lord,<br /> and touch no unclean thing;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>then I will welcome you,</p> </div> </div><h5>Jude 1:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p65001023.01-3">save others by snatching them out of the fire; to others show mercy with fear, hating even the garment stained by the flesh.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Colossians 2:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51002014.01-1">by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross.</p> </div><h5>Colossians 2:16-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p51002016.06-2">Therefore let no one pass judgment on you in questions of food and drink, or with regard to a festival or a new moon or a Sabbath. These are a shadow of the things to come, but the substance belongs to Christ.</p> </div><h5>Daniel 9:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p27009027.01-3">And he shall make a strong covenant with many for one week, and for half of the week he shall put an end to sacrifice and offering. And on the wing of abominations shall come one who makes desolate, until the decreed end is poured out on the desolator.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:15-16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002015.01-4">by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace, and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

