---
pagetitle: Of the law of God, part 4
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/06/26/
prev_date: Jun 26
this_url: /westminster-daily/06/27/
this_date: Jun 27
next_url: /westminster-daily/06/28/
next_date: Jun 28
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 19: Of the Law of God

4. To them also, as a body politic, he gave sundry judicial laws, which expired together with the State of that people; not obliging any other now, further than the general equity thereof may require.[^fnref:wcf1]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Exodus 21:1-22:29</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p02021001.04-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v02021001-1">21:1&nbsp;</span>&#8220;Now these are the rules that you shall set before them. When you buy a Hebrew slave, he shall serve six years, and in the seventh he shall go out free, for nothing. If he comes in single, he shall go out single; if he comes in married, then his wife shall go out with him. If his master gives him a wife and she bears him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall be her master's, and he shall go out alone. But if the slave plainly says, &#8216;I love my master, my wife, and my children; I will not go out free,&#8217; then his master shall bring him to God, and he shall bring him to the door or the doorpost. And his master shall bore his ear through with an awl, and he shall be his slave forever.</p>  <p id="p02021007.01-1">&#8220;When a man sells his daughter as a slave, she shall not go out as the male slaves do. If she does not please her master, who has designated her for himself, then he shall let her be redeemed. He shall have no right to sell her to a foreign people, since he has broken faith with her. If he designates her for his son, he shall deal with her as with a daughter. If he takes another wife to himself, he shall not diminish her food, her clothing, or her marital rights. And if he does not do these three things for her, she shall go out for nothing, without payment of money.</p>  <p id="p02021012.01-1">&#8220;Whoever strikes a man so that he dies shall be put to death. But if he did not lie in wait for him, but God let him fall into his hand, then I will appoint for you a place to which he may flee. But if a man willfully attacks another to kill him by cunning, you shall take him from my altar, that he may die.</p>  <p id="p02021015.01-1">&#8220;Whoever strikes his father or his mother shall be put to death.</p>  <p id="p02021016.01-1">&#8220;Whoever steals a man and sells him, and anyone found in possession of him, shall be put to death.</p>  <p id="p02021017.01-1">&#8220;Whoever curses his father or his mother shall be put to death.</p>  <p id="p02021018.01-1">&#8220;When men quarrel and one strikes the other with a stone or with his fist and the man does not die but takes to his bed, then if the man rises again and walks outdoors with his staff, he who struck him shall be clear; only he shall pay for the loss of his time, and shall have him thoroughly healed.</p>  <p id="p02021020.01-1">&#8220;When a man strikes his slave, male or female, with a rod and the slave dies under his hand, he shall be avenged. But if the slave survives a day or two, he is not to be avenged, for the slave is his money.</p>  <p id="p02021022.01-1">&#8220;When men strive together and hit a pregnant woman, so that her children come out, but there is no harm, the one who hit her shall surely be fined, as the woman's husband shall impose on him, and he shall pay as the judges determine. But if there is harm, then you shall pay life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound, stripe for stripe.</p>  <p id="p02021026.01-1">&#8220;When a man strikes the eye of his slave, male or female, and destroys it, he shall let the slave go free because of his eye. If he knocks out the tooth of his slave, male or female, he shall let the slave go free because of his tooth.</p>  <p id="p02021028.01-1">&#8220;When an ox gores a man or a woman to death, the ox shall be stoned, and its flesh shall not be eaten, but the owner of the ox shall not be liable. But if the ox has been accustomed to gore in the past, and its owner has been warned but has not kept it in, and it kills a man or a woman, the ox shall be stoned, and its owner also shall be put to death. If a ransom is imposed on him, then he shall give for the redemption of his life whatever is imposed on him. If it gores a man's son or daughter, he shall be dealt with according to this same rule. If the ox gores a slave, male or female, the owner shall give to their master thirty shekels of silver, and the ox shall be stoned.</p>   <p id="p02021033.04-1">&#8220;When a man opens a pit, or when a man digs a pit and does not cover it, and an ox or a donkey falls into it, the owner of the pit shall make restoration. He shall give money to its owner, and the dead beast shall be his.</p>  <p id="p02021035.01-1">&#8220;When one man's ox butts another's, so that it dies, then they shall sell the live ox and share its price, and the dead beast also they shall share. Or if it is known that the ox has been accustomed to gore in the past, and its owner has not kept it in, he shall repay ox for ox, and the dead beast shall be his.</p>  <p id="p02022001.01-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v02022001-1">22:1&nbsp;</span> &#8220;If a man steals an ox or a sheep, and kills it or sells it, he shall repay five oxen for an ox, and four sheep for a sheep.  If a thief is found breaking in and is struck so that he dies, there shall be no bloodguilt for him, but if the sun has risen on him, there shall be bloodguilt for him. He shall surely pay. If he has nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft. If the stolen beast is found alive in his possession, whether it is an ox or a donkey or a sheep, he shall pay double.</p>  <p id="p02022005.01-1">&#8220;If a man causes a field or vineyard to be grazed over, or lets his beast loose and it feeds in another man's field, he shall make restitution from the best in his own field and in his own vineyard.</p>  <p id="p02022006.01-1">&#8220;If fire breaks out and catches in thorns so that the stacked grain or the standing grain or the field is consumed, he who started the fire shall make full restitution.</p>  <p id="p02022007.01-1">&#8220;If a man gives to his neighbor money or goods to keep safe, and it is stolen from the man's house, then, if the thief is found, he shall pay double. If the thief is not found, the owner of the house shall come near to God to show whether or not he has put his hand to his neighbor's property. For every breach of trust, whether it is for an ox, for a donkey, for a sheep, for a cloak, or for any kind of lost thing, of which one says, &#8216;This is it,&#8217; the case of both parties shall come before God. The one whom God condemns shall pay double to his neighbor.</p>  <p id="p02022010.01-1">&#8220;If a man gives to his neighbor a donkey or an ox or a sheep or any beast to keep safe, and it dies or is injured or is driven away, without anyone seeing it, an oath by the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> shall be between them both to see whether or not he has put his hand to his neighbor's property. The owner shall accept the oath, and he shall not make restitution. But if it is stolen from him, he shall make restitution to its owner. If it is torn by beasts, let him bring it as evidence. He shall not make restitution for what has been torn.</p>  <p id="p02022014.01-1">&#8220;If a man borrows anything of his neighbor, and it is injured or dies, the owner not being with it, he shall make full restitution. If the owner was with it, he shall not make restitution; if it was hired, it came for its hiring fee.</p>   <p id="p02022016.05-1">&#8220;If a man seduces a virgin who is not betrothed and lies with her, he shall give the bride-price for her and make her his wife. If her father utterly refuses to give her to him, he shall pay money equal to the bride-price for virgins.</p>  <p id="p02022018.01-1">&#8220;You shall not permit a sorceress to live.</p>  <p id="p02022019.01-1">&#8220;Whoever lies with an animal shall be put to death.</p>  <p id="p02022020.01-1">&#8220;Whoever sacrifices to any god, other than the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> alone, shall be devoted to destruction.</p>  <p id="p02022021.01-1">&#8220;You shall not wrong a sojourner or oppress him, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt. You shall not mistreat any widow or fatherless child. If you do mistreat them, and they cry out to me, I will surely hear their cry, and my wrath will burn, and I will kill you with the sword, and your wives shall become widows and your children fatherless.</p>  <p id="p02022025.01-1">&#8220;If you lend money to any of my people with you who is poor, you shall not be like a moneylender to him, and you shall not exact interest from him. If ever you take your neighbor's cloak in pledge, you shall return it to him before the sun goes down, for that is his only covering, and it is his cloak for his body; in what else shall he sleep? And if he cries to me, I will hear, for I am compassionate.</p>  <p id="p02022028.01-1">&#8220;You shall not revile God, nor curse a ruler of your people.</p>  <p id="p02022029.01-1">&#8220;You shall not delay to offer from the fullness of your harvest and from the outflow of your presses. The firstborn of your sons you shall give to me.</p> </div><h5>Genesis 49:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p01049010.01-2">The scepter shall not depart from Judah,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>nor the ruler's staff from between his feet,<br /> until tribute comes to him;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and to him shall be the obedience of the peoples.</p> </div> </div><h5>1 Peter 2:13-14</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p60002013.04-3">Be subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution, whether it be to the emperor as supreme, or to governors as sent by him to punish those who do evil and to praise those who do good.</p> </div><h5>Matthew 5:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40005017.07-4"><span class="woc">&#8220;Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them.</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 5:38-39</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40005038.02-5"><span class="woc">&#8220;You have heard that it was said, &#8216;An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.&#8217;</span> <span class="woc">But I say to you, Do not resist the one who is evil. But if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also.</span></p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 9:8-10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46009008.01-6">Do I say these things on human authority? Does not the Law say the same? For it is written in the Law of Moses, &#8220;You shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain.&#8221; Is it for oxen that God is concerned? Does he not speak entirely for our sake? It was written for our sake, because the plowman should plow in hope and the thresher thresh in hope of sharing in the crop.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

