---
pagetitle: Of the law of God, part 5
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/06/27/
prev_date: Jun 27
this_url: /westminster-daily/06/28/
this_date: Jun 28
next_url: /westminster-daily/06/29/
next_date: Jun 29
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 19: Of the Law of God

5\. The moral law doth forever bind all, as well justified persons as others, to the obedience thereof;[^fnref:wcf1] and that, not only in regard of the matter contained in it, but also in respect of the authority of God the Creator, who gave it.[^fnref:wcf2] Neither doth Christ, in the gospel, any way dissolve, but much strengthen this obligation.[^fnref:wcf3]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 13:8-10</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45013008.06-1">Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one who loves another has fulfilled the law. For the commandments, &#8220;You shall not commit adultery, You shall not murder, You shall not steal, You shall not covet,&#8221; and any other commandment, are summed up in this word: &#8220;You shall love your neighbor as yourself.&#8221; Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is the fulfilling of the law.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 6:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49006002.01-2">&#8220;Honor your father and mother&#8221; (this is the first commandment with a promise),</p> </div><h5>1 John 2:3-4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62002003.01-3">And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we keep his commandments. Whoever says &#8220;I know him&#8221; but does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him,</p> </div><h5>1 John 2:7-8</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p62002007.04-4">Beloved, I am writing you no new commandment, but an old commandment that you had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word that you have heard. At the same time, it is a new commandment that I am writing to you, which is true in him and in you, because the darkness is passing away and the true light is already shining.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>James 2:10-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p59002010.01-1">For whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has become accountable for all of it. For he who said, &#8220;Do not commit adultery,&#8221; also said, &#8220;Do not murder.&#8221; If you do not commit adultery but do murder, you have become a transgressor of the law.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Matthew 5:17-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p40005017.07-1"><span class="woc">&#8220;Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them.</span> <span class="woc">For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law until all is accomplished.</span> <span class="woc">Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven.</span></p> </div><h5>James 2:8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p59002008.01-2">If you really fulfill the royal law according to the Scripture, &#8220;You shall love your neighbor as yourself,&#8221; you are doing well.</p> </div><h5>Romans 3:31</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45003031.01-3">Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? By no means! On the contrary, we uphold the law.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

