---
pagetitle: Of God's eternal decree, part 6
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/01/31/
prev_date: Jan 31
this_url: /westminster-daily/02/01/
short_date: "0201"
this_date: Feb 1
next_url: /westminster-daily/02/02/
next_date: Feb 2
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 3: Of God's Eternal Decree

As God hath appointed the elect unto glory, so hath he, by the eternal and most free purpose of his will, foreordained all the means thereunto.[^fnref:wcf1] Wherefore, they who are elected, being fallen in Adam, are redeemed by Christ,[^fnref:wcf2] are effectually called unto faith in Christ by his Spirit working in due season, are justified, adopted, sanctified,[^fnref:wcf3] and kept by his power, through faith, unto salvation.[^fnref:wcf4] Neither are any other redeemed by Christ, effectually called, justified, adopted, sanctified, and saved, but the elect only.[^fnref:wcf5]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Peter 1:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60001002.01-1">according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood:</p> <p id="p60001002.26-1">May grace and peace be multiplied to you.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 1:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001004.01-2">even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 1:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001005.01-3">he predestined us for adoption as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will,</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 2:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49002010.01-4">For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.</p> </div><h5>2 Thessalonians 2:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p53002013.03-5">But we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the firstfruits to be saved, through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Thessalonians 5:9-10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p52005009.01-1">For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us so that whether we are awake or asleep we might live with him.</p> </div><h5>Titus 2:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p56002014.01-2">who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 8:30</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008030.01-1">And those whom he predestined he also called, and those whom he called he also justified, and those whom he justified he also glorified.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 1:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001005.01-2">he predestined us for adoption as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will,</p> </div><h5>2 Thessalonians 2:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p53002013.03-3">But we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the firstfruits to be saved, through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>1 Peter 1:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p60001005.01-1">who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf5]: <div class="esv"><h5>John 17:9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43017009.01-1"><span class="woc">I am praying for them. I am not praying for the world but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours.</span></p> </div><h5>Romans 8:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008028.01-2">And we know that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose.</p> </div><h5>John 6:64-65</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43006064.01-3"><span class="woc">But there are some of you who do not believe.&#8221;</span> (For Jesus knew from the beginning who those were who did not believe, and who it was who would betray him.) And he said, <span class="woc">&#8220;This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>John 10:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43010026.01-4"><span class="woc">but you do not believe because you are not part of my flock.</span></p> </div><h5>John 8:47</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43008047.01-5"><span class="woc">Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear them is that you are not of God.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>1 John 2:19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p62002019.01-6">They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they would have continued with us. But they went out, that it might become plain that they all are not of us.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

