---
pagetitle: Of God's eternal decree, part 8
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/02/02/
prev_date: Feb 2
this_url: /westminster-daily/02/03/
short_date: 0203
this_date: Feb 3
next_url: /westminster-daily/02/04/
next_date: Feb 4
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 3: Of God's Eternal Decree

8\. The doctrine of this high mystery of predestination is to be handled with special prudence and care,[^fnref:wcf1] that men, attending the will of God revealed in his Word, and yielding obedience thereunto, may, from the certainty of their effectual vocation, be assured of their eternal election.[^fnref:wcf2] So shall this doctrine afford matter of praise, reverence, and admiration of God;[^fnref:wcf3] and of humility, diligence, and abundant consolation to all that sincerely obey the gospel.[^fnref:wcf4]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 9:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45009020.01-1">But who are you, O man, to answer back to God? Will what is molded say to its molder, &#8220;Why have you made me like this?&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Romans 11:33</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45011033.01-2">Oh, the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments and how inscrutable his ways!</p> </div><h5>Deuteronomy 29:29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p05029029.01-3">&#8220;The secret things belong to the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> our God, but the things that are revealed belong to us and to our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Peter 1:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p61001010.01-1">Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to make your calling and election sure, for if you practice these qualities you will never fall.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ephesians 1:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49001006.01-1">to the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has blessed us in the Beloved.</p> </div><h5>Romans 11:33</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45011033.01-2">Oh, the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments and how inscrutable his ways!  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 11:5-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45011005.01-1">So too at the present time there is a remnant, chosen by grace. But if it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works; otherwise grace would no longer be grace.</p> </div><h5>Romans 11:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45011020.01-2">That is true. They were broken off because of their unbelief, but you stand fast through faith. So do not become proud, but fear.</p> </div><h5>2 Peter 1:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p61001010.01-3">Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to make your calling and election sure, for if you practice these qualities you will never fall.</p> </div><h5>Romans 8:33</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45008033.01-4">Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies.</p> </div><h5>Luke 10:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42010020.01-5"><span class="woc">Nevertheless, do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven.&#8221;</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

