---
pagetitle: Of creation, part 1
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/02/04/
prev_date: Feb 4
this_url: /westminster-daily/02/05/
short_date: "0205"
this_date: Feb 5
next_url: /westminster-daily/02/06/
next_date: Feb 6
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 4: Of Creation

1\. It pleased God the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost,[^fnref:wcf1] for the manifestation of the glory of his eternal power, wisdom, and goodness,[^fnref:wcf2] in the beginning, to create, or make of nothing, the world, and all things therein whether visible or invisible, in the space of six days; and all very good.[^fnref:wcf3]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Hebrews 1:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58001002.01-1">but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world.</p> </div><h5>John 1:2-3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p43001002.01-2">He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him was not any thing made that was made.</p> </div><h5>Genesis 1:2</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01001002.01-3">The earth was without form and void, and darkness was over the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters.</p> </div><h5>Job 26:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p18026013.01-4">By his wind the heavens were made fair;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>his hand pierced the fleeing serpent.</p> </div> </div><h5>Job 33:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p18033004.01-5">The Spirit of God has made me,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and the breath of the Almighty gives me life.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 1:20</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45001020.01-1">For his invisible attributes, namely, his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived, ever since the creation of the world, in the things that have been made. So they are without excuse.</p> </div><h5>Jeremiah 10:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p24010012.01-2">It is he who made the earth by his power,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>who established the world by his wisdom,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and by his understanding stretched out the heavens.</p> </div> </div><h5>Psalm 104:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19104024.01-3">O <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>, how manifold are your works!<br /> <span class="indent"></span>In wisdom have you made them all;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>the earth is full of your creatures.</p> </div> </div><h5>Psalm 33:5-6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19033005.01-4">He loves righteousness and justice;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>the earth is full of the steadfast love of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span>.</p>  <p class="line-group" id="p19033006.01-4">By the word of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> the heavens were made,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and by the breath of his mouth all their host.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p class="chapter-first" id="p01001001.06-1"><span class="chapter-num" id="v01001001-1">1:1&nbsp;</span>In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was over the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters.</p>  <p id="p01001003.01-1">And God said, &#8220;Let there be light,&#8221; and there was light. And God saw that the light was good. And God separated the light from the darkness. God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And there was evening and there was morning, the first day.</p>  <p id="p01001006.01-1">And God said, &#8220;Let there be an expanse in the midst of the waters, and let it separate the waters from the waters.&#8221; And God made the expanse and separated the waters that were under the expanse from the waters that were above the expanse. And it was so. And God called the expanse Heaven. And there was evening and there was morning, the second day.</p>  <p id="p01001009.01-1">And God said, &#8220;Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together into one place, and let the dry land appear.&#8221; And it was so. God called the dry land Earth, and the waters that were gathered together he called Seas. And God saw that it was good.</p>  <p id="p01001011.01-1">And God said, &#8220;Let the earth sprout vegetation, plants yielding seed, and fruit trees bearing fruit in which is their seed, each according to its kind, on the earth.&#8221; And it was so. The earth brought forth vegetation, plants yielding seed according to their own kinds, and trees bearing fruit in which is their seed, each according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. And there was evening and there was morning, the third day.</p>  <p id="p01001014.01-1">And God said, &#8220;Let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens to separate the day from the night. And let them be for signs and for seasons, and for days and years, and let them be lights in the expanse of the heavens to give light upon the earth.&#8221; And it was so. And God made the two great lights&#8212;the greater light to rule the day and the lesser light to rule the night&#8212;and the stars. And God set them in the expanse of the heavens to give light on the earth, to rule over the day and over the night, and to separate the light from the darkness. And God saw that it was good. And there was evening and there was morning, the fourth day.</p>  <p id="p01001020.01-1">And God said, &#8220;Let the waters swarm with swarms of living creatures, and let birds fly above the earth across the expanse of the heavens.&#8221; So God created the great sea creatures and every living creature that moves, with which the waters swarm, according to their kinds, and every winged bird according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. And God blessed them, saying, &#8220;Be fruitful and multiply and fill the waters in the seas, and let birds multiply on the earth.&#8221; And there was evening and there was morning, the fifth day.</p>  <p id="p01001024.01-1">And God said, &#8220;Let the earth bring forth living creatures according to their kinds&#8212;livestock and creeping things and beasts of the earth according to their kinds.&#8221; And it was so. And God made the beasts of the earth according to their kinds and the livestock according to their kinds, and everything that creeps on the ground according to its kind. And God saw that it was good.</p>  <p id="p01001026.01-1">Then God said, &#8220;Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over the livestock and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth.&#8221;</p>  <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p01001027.01-1">So God created man in his own image,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>in the image of God he created him;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>male and female he created them.</p> </div>  <p id="p01001028.01-1">And God blessed them. And God said to them, &#8220;Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over every living thing that moves on the earth.&#8221; And God said, &#8220;Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the face of all the earth, and every tree with seed in its fruit. You shall have them for food. And to every beast of the earth and to every bird of the heavens and to everything that creeps on the earth, everything that has the breath of life, I have given every green plant for food.&#8221; And it was so. And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning, the sixth day.</p> </div><h5>Hebrews 11:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p58011003.01-2">By faith we understand that the universe was created by the word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things that are visible.</p> </div><h5>Colossians 1:16</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51001016.01-3">For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities&#8212;all things were created through him and for him.</p> </div><h5>Acts 17:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44017024.01-4">The God who made the world and everything in it, being Lord of heaven and earth, does not live in temples made by man,  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

