---
pagetitle: Of creation, part 2
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/02/07/
prev_date: Feb 7
this_url: /westminster-daily/02/08/
short_date: "0208"
this_date: Feb 8
next_url: /westminster-daily/02/09/
next_date: Feb 9
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 4: Of Creation

<span class="q">Q 2.</span> After God had made all other creatures, he created man, male and female,[^fnref:wcf1] with reasonable and immortal souls,[^fnref:wcf2] endued with knowledge, righteousness, and true holiness, after his own image;[^fnref:wcf3] having the law of God written in their hearts,[^fnref:wcf4] and power to fulfill it:[^fnref:wcf5] and yet under a possibility of transgressing, being left to the liberty of their own will, which was subject unto change.[^fnref:wcf6] Beside this law written in their hearts, they received a command, not to eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil;[^fnref:wcf7] which while they kept, they were happy in their communion with God, and had dominion over the creatures.[^fnref:wcf8]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 1:27</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p01001027.01-1">So God created man in his own image,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>in the image of God he created him;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>male and female he created them.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 2:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01002007.01-1">then the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> God formed the man of dust from the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and the man became a living creature.</p> </div><h5>Ecclesiastes 12:7</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p21012007.01-2">and the dust returns to the earth as it was, and the spirit returns to God who gave it.</p> </div><h5>Luke 23:43</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p42023043.01-3">And he said to him, <span class="woc">&#8220;Truly, I say to you, today you will be with me in Paradise.&#8221;</span></p> </div><h5>Matthew 10:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p40010028.01-4"><span class="woc">And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf3]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 1:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01001026.01-1">Then God said, &#8220;Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over the livestock and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Colossians 3:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p51003010.01-2">and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its creator.</p> </div><h5>Ephesians 4:24</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p49004024.01-3">and to put on the new self, created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf4]: <div class="esv"><h5>Romans 2:14-15</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45002014.01-1">For when Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do what the law requires, they are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law. They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse them  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf5]: <div class="esv"><h5>Ecclesiastes 7:29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p21007029.01-1">See, this alone I found, that God made man upright, but they have sought out many schemes.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf6]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 3:6</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01003006.01-1">So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate, and she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate.</p> </div><h5>Ecclesiastes 7:29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p21007029.01-2">See, this alone I found, that God made man upright, but they have sought out many schemes.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf7]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 2:17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01002017.01-1">but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Genesis 3:8-11</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01003008.01-2">And they heard the sound of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> God among the trees of the garden. But the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> God called to the man and said to him, &#8220;Where are you?&#8221; And he said, &#8220;I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked, and I hid myself.&#8221; He said, &#8220;Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat?&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Genesis 3:23</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01003023.01-3">therefore the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> God sent him out from the garden of Eden to work the ground from which he was taken.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf8]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 1:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01001026.01-1">Then God said, &#8220;Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over the livestock and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Genesis 1:28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01001028.01-2">And God blessed them. And God said to them, &#8220;Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over every living thing that moves on the earth.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

