---
pagetitle: Of providence, part 5
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/02/15/
prev_date: Feb 15
this_url: /westminster-daily/02/16/
short_date: "0216"
this_date: Feb 16
next_url: /westminster-daily/02/17/
next_date: Feb 17
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 5: Of Providence

<span class="q">5.</span> The most wise, righteous, and gracious God doth oftentimes leave, for a season, his own children to manifold temptations, and the corruption of their own hearts, to chastise them for their former sins, or to discover unto them the hidden strength of corruption and deceitfulness of their hearts, that they may be humbled;[^fnref:wcf1] and, to raise them to a more close and constant dependence for their support upon himself, and to make them more watchful against all future occasions of sin, and for sundry other just and holy ends.[^fnref:wcf2]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Chronicles 32:25-26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p14032025.01-1">But Hezekiah did not make return according to the benefit done to him, for his heart was proud. Therefore wrath came upon him and Judah and Jerusalem. But Hezekiah humbled himself for the pride of his heart, both he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the wrath of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> did not come upon them in the days of Hezekiah.</p> </div><h5>2 Chronicles 32:31</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p14032031.01-2">And so in the matter of the envoys of the princes of Babylon, who had been sent to him to inquire about the sign that had been done in the land, God left him to himself, in order to test him and to know all that was in his heart.</p> </div><h5>2 Samuel 24:1</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p10024001.03-3"><span class="chapter-num" id="v10024001-3">24:1&nbsp;</span>Again the anger of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> was kindled against Israel, and he incited David against them, saying, &#8220;Go, number Israel and Judah.&#8221;  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>2 Corinthians 12:7-9</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47012007.01-1">So to keep me from becoming conceited because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations, a thorn was given me in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to harass me, to keep me from becoming conceited. Three times I pleaded with the Lord about this, that it should leave me. But he said to me, <span class="woc">&#8220;My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.&#8221;</span> Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me.</p> </div><h5>Psalm 77:1</h5> <div class="esv-text">  <div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19077001.20-2"><span class="chapter-num" id="v19077001-2">77:1&nbsp;</span>I cry aloud to God,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>aloud to God, and he will hear me.</p> </div> </div><h5>Psalm 77:10</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19077010.01-3">Then I said, &#8220;I will appeal to this,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>to the years of the right hand of the Most High.&#8221;</p> </div> </div><h5>Psalm 77:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19077012.01-4">I will ponder all your work,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and meditate on your mighty deeds.</p> </div> </div><h5>Mark 14:66-72</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p41014066.04-5">And as Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest came, and seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, &#8220;You also were with the Nazarene, Jesus.&#8221; But he denied it, saying, &#8220;I neither know nor understand what you mean.&#8221; And he went out into the gateway and the rooster crowed. And the servant girl saw him and began again to say to the bystanders, &#8220;This man is one of them.&#8221; But again he denied it. And after a little while the bystanders again said to Peter, &#8220;Certainly you are one of them, for you are a Galilean.&#8221; But he began to invoke a curse on himself and to swear, &#8220;I do not know this man of whom you speak.&#8221; And immediately the rooster crowed a second time. And Peter remembered how Jesus had said to him, <span class="woc">&#8220;Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times.&#8221;</span> And he broke down and wept.</p> </div><h5>John 21:15-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p43021015.04-6">When they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, <span class="woc">&#8220;Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these?&#8221;</span> He said to him, &#8220;Yes, Lord; you know that I love you.&#8221; He said to him, <span class="woc">&#8220;Feed my lambs.&#8221;</span> He said to him a second time, <span class="woc">&#8220;Simon, son of John, do you love me?&#8221;</span> He said to him, &#8220;Yes, Lord; you know that I love you.&#8221; He said to him, <span class="woc">&#8220;Tend my sheep.&#8221;</span> He said to him the third time, <span class="woc">&#8220;Simon, son of John, do you love me?&#8221;</span> Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, <span class="woc">&#8220;Do you love me?&#8221;</span> and he said to him, &#8220;Lord, you know everything; you know that I love you.&#8221; Jesus said to him, <span class="woc">&#8220;Feed my sheep.</span>  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

