---
pagetitle: Did man continue in that estate wherein God at first created him?
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/02/19/
prev_date: Feb 19
this_url: /westminster-daily/02/20/
this_date: Feb 20
next_url: /westminster-daily/02/21/
next_date: Feb 21
---

#### Shorter Catechism

13\. Did our first parents continue in the estate wherein they were created?

A. Our first parents, being left to the freedom of their own will, fell from the estate wherein they were created, by sinning against God.[^fnref:wsc1]


[^fnref:wsc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 3:6-8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01003006.01-1">So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate, and she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loincloths.</p>  <p id="p01003008.01-1">And they heard the sound of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> God among the trees of the garden.</p> </div><h5>Genesis 3:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01003013.01-2">Then the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> God said to the woman, &#8220;What is this that you have done?&#8221; The woman said, &#8220;The serpent deceived me, and I ate.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 11:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47011003.01-3">But I am afraid that as the serpent deceived Eve by his cunning, your thoughts will be led astray from a sincere and pure devotion to Christ.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>


#### Larger Catechism

21\. Did man continue in that estate wherein God at first created him?

A. Our first parents being left to the freedom of their own will, through the temptation of Satan, transgressed the commandment of God in eating the forbidden fruit; and thereby fell from the estate of innocency wherein they were created.[^fnref:wlc1]


[^fnref:wlc1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 3:6-8</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01003006.01-1">So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate, and she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loincloths.</p>  <p id="p01003008.01-1">And they heard the sound of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> God among the trees of the garden.</p> </div><h5>Genesis 3:13</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01003013.01-2">Then the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> God said to the woman, &#8220;What is this that you have done?&#8221; The woman said, &#8220;The serpent deceived me, and I ate.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Ecclesiastes 7:29</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p21007029.01-3">See, this alone I found, that God made man upright, but they have sought out many schemes.</p> </div><h5>2 Corinthians 11:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p47011003.01-4">But I am afraid that as the serpent deceived Eve by his cunning, your thoughts will be led astray from a sincere and pure devotion to Christ.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

