---
pagetitle: Of the fall of man, of sin, and of the punishment thereof, part 3
date: February 19, 2020
prev_url: /westminster-daily/02/23/
prev_date: Feb 23
this_url: /westminster-daily/02/24/
this_date: Feb 24
next_url: /westminster-daily/02/25/
next_date: Feb 25
---

#### Confession of Faith

##### Chapter 6: Of the Fall of Man, of Sin, and of the Punishment Thereof

3. They being the root of all mankind, the guilt of this sin was imputed;[^fnref:wcf1] and the same death in sin, and corrupted nature, conveyed to all their posterity descending from them by ordinary generation.[^fnref:wcf2]

[^fnref:wcf1]: <div class="esv"><h5>Genesis 1:27-28</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p01001027.01-1">So God created man in his own image,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>in the image of God he created him;<br /> <span class="indent"></span>male and female he created them.</p> </div>  <p id="p01001028.01-1">And God blessed them. And God said to them, &#8220;Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over every living thing that moves on the earth.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Genesis 2:16-17</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01002016.01-2">And the <span class="small-caps">Lord</span> God commanded the man, saying, &#8220;You may surely eat of every tree of the garden, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die.&#8221;</p> </div><h5>Acts 17:26</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p44017026.01-3">And he made from one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth, having determined allotted periods and the boundaries of their dwelling place,</p> </div><h5>Romans 5:12</h5> <div class="esv-text"> <p id="p45005012.07-4">Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned&#8212;</p> </div><h5>Romans 5:15-19</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p45005015.01-5">But the free gift is not like the trespass. For if many died through one man's trespass, much more have the grace of God and the free gift by the grace of that one man Jesus Christ abounded for many. And the free gift is not like the result of that one man's sin. For the judgment following one trespass brought condemnation, but the free gift following many trespasses brought justification. For if, because of one man's trespass, death reigned through that one man, much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man Jesus Christ.</p>  <p id="p45005018.01-5">Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all men. For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 15:21-22</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46015021.01-6">For as by a man came death, by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 15:45</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46015045.01-7">Thus it is written, &#8220;The first man Adam became a living being&#8221;; the last Adam became a life-giving spirit.</p> </div><h5>1 Corinthians 15:49</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p46015049.01-8">Just as we have borne the image of the man of dust, we shall also bear the image of the man of heaven.  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div>

[^fnref:wcf2]: <div class="esv"><h5>Psalm 51:5</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p19051005.01-1">Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity,<br /> <span class="indent"></span>and in sin did my mother conceive me.</p> </div> </div><h5>Genesis 5:3</h5> <div class="esv-text"><p id="p01005003.01-2">When Adam had lived 130 years, he fathered a son in his own likeness, after his image, and named him Seth.</p> </div><h5>Job 14:4</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p18014004.01-3">Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean?<br /> <span class="indent"></span>There is not one.</p> </div> </div><h5>Job 15:14</h5> <div class="esv-text"><div class="block-indent"> <p class="line-group" id="p18015014.01-4">What is man, that he can be pure?<br /> <span class="indent"></span>Or he who is born of a woman, that he can be righteous?  (<a href="http://www.esv.org" class="copyright">ESV</a>)</p> </div> </div> </div>

